content/execcontact.md, before:

+++
title = "SIGSOFT Executive Committee"
+++

### Chair: Marsha Chechik

    University of Toronto, Canada
    chechik@cs.toronto.edu 
    chair_SIGSOFT@acm.org 

### Vice Chair:  Massimiliano Di Penta
    University of Sannia, Italy
    dipenta@unisannio.it 

### At-Large Members:

#### Claire Le Goues (SIGSOFT Awards) 

    Carnegie Mellono University
    clegoues@cs.cmu.edu

#### David Lo (Student Mentorships and Support, Secretary-Treasurer)

    Singapore Management University
    davidlo@smu.edu.sg 

#### Emerson Murphy-Hill (Director of Communication)

    captain.emerson@gmail.com
    

#### Kelly Blincoe (Memberships and Community)

    University of Auckland, New Zealand
    k.blincoe@auckland.ac.nz 

### Most Recent Past Chair: Thomas Zimmermann

    Microsoft Research
    One Microsoft Way
    Redmond, WA 98004
    tzimmer@microsoft.com
    

### Liaison Members:

#### International Liaison: S.C. Cheung

    Department of Computer Science and Engineering
    Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
    Clear Water Bay, Kowloon
    Hong Kong
    Tel: +852 2358 7016
    Fax: +852 2358 1477
    scc@cse.ust.hk 

#### iSoft Liaison: Atul Kumar

    Senior Research Scientist, IBM Research India
    https://www.linkedin.com/in/atul-kumar-0ba442
    atulkumar@gmail.com

#### cSoft Liaison: Minghui Zhou

    Peking University, China
    zhmh@pku.edu.cn 

#### Special Projects Liaison: Will Tracz

    Lockheed Martin Fellow Emeritus (retired)
    Owego, NY 1327
    USA
    will@tracz.org 

#### Industry Co-Liaison: Nachi Nagappan

    Meta, USA
    nnachi@meta.com

#### Industry Co-Liaison:  Xin Xia

    Huawei Technologies, China
    xin.xia@acm.org

#### Climate Change Liaison: Rick Kazman

    University of Hawaii, USA
    kazman@hawaii.edu

#### Liaisons for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Jo Atlee

    University of Waterloo
    Canada
    jmatlee@uwaterloo.ca 

#### Liaisons for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Kelly Blincoe

    University of Auckland
    New Zealand
    k.blincoe@auckland.ac.nz 

#### Liaisons for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Alexander Serebrenik

    Eindhoven University of Technology
    Netherlands
    a.serebrenik@tue.nl 

#### Research Highlight Chair: Martin Robillard

    McGill University
    Montreal, Quebec
    Canada
    https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~martin/ 

#### Social Media Chair: Judith Michael

    Department of Computer Science and Engineering
    RWTH Aachen University, Germany
    michael@se-rwth.de

#### Digital Learning Chair: Sridhar Chimalakonda

    Department of Computer Science and Engineering
    Indian Institute of Technology　Tirupati, India
    http://researchweb.iiit.ac.in/~sridhar_ch
    ch@iittp.ac.in

#### Digital Learning Co-Chair: Andrew Begel

    Carnegie Mellon University, USA
    abegel@andrew.cmu.edu

#### CAPS Co-Chair: Nan Niu

    University of Cincinnati, USA
    niunn@ucmail.uc.edu

#### CAPS Co-Chair: Zhiyuan Wan

    Zhejiang University, China
    wanzhiyuan@zju.edu.cn

#### CAPS Co-Chair: Fabio Palomba

    University of Salerno, Italy
    fpalomba@unisa.it

#### Newsletter Editor: Jacopo Soldani

    editors_SIGSOFT@acm.org

Commit message:

update execcontact: contact of Thomas; update contact: social media chair and information director

content/execcontact.md, after:

+++
title = "SIGSOFT Executive Committee"
+++

### Chair: Marsha Chechik

    University of Toronto, Canada
    chechik@cs.toronto.edu 
    chair_SIGSOFT@acm.org 

### Vice Chair:  Massimiliano Di Penta
    University of Sannia, Italy
    dipenta@unisannio.it 

### At-Large Members:

#### Claire Le Goues (SIGSOFT Awards) 

    Carnegie Mellono University
    clegoues@cs.cmu.edu

#### David Lo (Student Mentorships and Support, Secretary-Treasurer)

    Singapore Management University
    davidlo@smu.edu.sg 

#### Emerson Murphy-Hill (Director of Communication)

    captain.emerson@gmail.com
    

#### Kelly Blincoe (Memberships and Community)

    University of Auckland, New Zealand
    k.blincoe@auckland.ac.nz 

### Most Recent Past Chair: Thomas Zimmermann

    Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Science
    University of California, Irvine, USA
    tzimmer@uci.edu

### Liaison Members:

#### International Liaison: S.C. Cheung

    Department of Computer Science and Engineering
    Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
    Clear Water Bay, Kowloon
    Hong Kong
    Tel: +852 2358 7016
    Fax: +852 2358 1477
    scc@cse.ust.hk 

#### iSoft Liaison: Atul Kumar

    Senior Research Scientist, IBM Research India
    https://www.linkedin.com/in/atul-kumar-0ba442
    atulkumar@gmail.com

#### cSoft Liaison: Minghui Zhou

    Peking University, China
    zhmh@pku.edu.cn 

#### Special Projects Liaison: Will Tracz

    Lockheed Martin Fellow Emeritus (retired)
    Owego, NY 1327
    USA
    will@tracz.org 

#### Industry Co-Liaison: Nachi Nagappan

    Meta, USA
    nnachi@meta.com

#### Industry Co-Liaison:  Xin Xia

    Huawei Technologies, China
    xin.xia@acm.org

#### Climate Change Liaison: Rick Kazman

    University of Hawaii, USA
    kazman@hawaii.edu

#### Liaisons for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Jo Atlee

    University of Waterloo
    Canada
    jmatlee@uwaterloo.ca 

#### Liaisons for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Kelly Blincoe

    University of Auckland
    New Zealand
    k.blincoe@auckland.ac.nz 

#### Liaisons for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion: Alexander Serebrenik

    Eindhoven University of Technology
    Netherlands
    a.serebrenik@tue.nl 

#### Research Highlight Chair: Martin Robillard

    McGill University
    Montreal, Quebec
    Canada
    https://www.cs.mcgill.ca/~martin/ 

#### Social Media Chair: Judith Michael

    Department of Computer Science and Engineering
    RWTH Aachen University, Germany
    michael@se-rwth.de

#### Digital Learning Chair: Sridhar Chimalakonda

    Department of Computer Science and Engineering
    Indian Institute of Technology　Tirupati, India
    http://researchweb.iiit.ac.in/~sridhar_ch
    ch@iittp.ac.in

#### Digital Learning Co-Chair: Andrew Begel

    Carnegie Mellon University, USA
    abegel@andrew.cmu.edu

#### CAPS Co-Chair: Nan Niu

    University of Cincinnati, USA
    niunn@ucmail.uc.edu

#### CAPS Co-Chair: Zhiyuan Wan

    Zhejiang University, China
    wanzhiyuan@zju.edu.cn

#### CAPS Co-Chair: Fabio Palomba

    University of Salerno, Italy
    fpalomba@unisa.it

#### Newsletter Editor: Jacopo Soldani

    editors_SIGSOFT@acm.org
