content/awards/distinguishedService.md, before:

---
weight: 3
bookFlatSection: true
title: " Distinguished Service Award "
aliases: "/awards/distinguishedServiceAward.html"
---

This annual award is presented to individuals who have contributed dedicated and important service to the software engineering community. The award typically goes to a single person but can also be assigned to multiple people for joint contributions.

Recipients receive a plaque engraved with their name and signed by the chair of SIGSOFT and share a $1000 honorarium. The award is presented by the SIGSOFT chair at ICSE during ICSE's award presentation session. The award recipient(s) each receive support for travel to ICSE up to $2500 within their home continent and up to $3000 outside their home continent, including airfare, hotel, and conference registration for ICSE.

The selection committee solicits nominations from the software engineering community in a variety of ways including announcements in SIGSOFT's newsletter, Software Engineering Notes, and postings on appropriate newsgroups and websites. The committee considers all external nominations in the context of the nominees' specific and general service contributions to the overall software engineering community. The selection committee shall have the option to decline to make an award in a given year, if no suitable nominations are presented.

Criteria that the committee considers in evaluating nominations include:

1. Service to ACM SIGSOFT
2. Service to the software engineering community outside of SIGSOFT
3. Service to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in software engineering
4. Service to students
5. Length of time serving the software engineering community
6. Other service contributions

To submit a nomination for the award, please use the [awards nomination portal](https://sigsoft-awards.hotcrp.com/). Please note that:

* An intent to nominate must be submitted in the nomination system by October 6, 2025. The intent submission is very lightweight and only requires: (1) full name(s) and afﬁliation(s) of the nominee(s), (2) contact information of the nominator, and (3) some metadata. If no intent is received by the deadline, the nomination will be deemed late and not considered for this round of award selection.

* A single PDF containing the nomination package must be submitted through the portal to complete the submission by October 20, 2025 (two weeks after the registration deadline). The PDF should contain the following:
  1. Full name(s) and afﬁliation(s) of the nominee(s)
  2. Proposed citation (up to 25 words)
  3. Succinct description of why the nominee(s) is well-qualiﬁed for the award (100-250 words)
  4. Detailed nomination statement (no length limit, but please be reasonable)
  5. Up to three support letters (200-300 words will be sufﬁcient for each support letter, although longer statements of support are of course welcome). Each support letter must include the following sentence: "To the best of my knowledge, the candidate(s) I am endorsing has not committed any action that violates the ACM Code of Ethics and ACM's Core Values.


If you have questions about this award, please contact sigsoft-service-award (at) acm (dot) org.

## Winners
- 2025 Mauro Pezzé, USI Università della Svizzera Italiana Lugano (Switzerland), "For service to the software engineering community for three decades, and specifically for his recent contributions to TOSEM as Editor-in-Chief." 
- 2024  Massimiliano Di Penta, University of Sannio, for outstanding service to the software engineering community, including serving as program co-chair for all premier software engineering conferences and several other events.
- 2023 John Grundy, Monash University, for continued outstanding service to the software engineering community, including the repeated successful organization of flagship conferences, and leadership in the Australasian research and education community
- 2022	Joanne M. Atlee, University of Waterloo, for sustained, outstanding service to the software engineering community and enabling a research environment in software engineering world-wide that is equitable, diverse and inclusive
- 2021	Tao Xie, Peking University, for outstanding service contributions to the software engineering community, including substantial activities on SIGSOFT history, broadening participation in software engineering, and successful chairing of technical events
- 2020	Nenad Medvidović
- 2019	Matt Dwyer
- 2018	David S. Rosenblum
- 2017	Laura Dillon
- 2016	Martin Glinz
- 2015	Bashar Nuseibeh
- 2014	Leon Osterweil
- 2013	Wilhelm Schäfer
- 2012	Alexander Wolf
- 2011	Jeff Kramer
- 2010	Mary Lou Soffa
- 2009	Stuart Zweben
- 2008	John C. Knight
- 2007	David Notkin
- 2006	Carlo Ghezzi
- 2005	Richard N. Taylor
- 2004	Will Tracz
- 2003	Axel van Lamsweerde
- 2002	Lori Clarke
- 2001	Kouichi Kishida
- 2000	Marvin Zelkowitz
- 1999	Bill Riddle
- 1998	Bruce Barnes
- 1997	Peter Neumann
- 1996	Rick Adrion
- 1995	Tony Wasserman

## Committee


#### 2025
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and LERO, University of Limerick, Ireland (chair)
- Benoit Baudry, University of Montreal, Canada
- Domenico Bianculli, University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Jialun Cao, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, China
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw University, USA
- Jun Sun, SMU, Singapore
- Lin Tan, Purdue University, USA
- Yang Liu, NTU, Singapore
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, UK
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada  (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- Claire Le Goues, Carnegie Mellon University, USA (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2024 
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (chair)
- Filippo Lanubile, University of Bari, Italy (deputy chair)
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Katsuro Inoue, Nanzan University, Japan
- Barbara Paech, Heidelberg University, Germany
- David Shepherd, Louisiana State University, USA 
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw State University, USA
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)
  
#### 2023 
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom (chair)
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (deputy chair)
- Paris Avgeriou, University of Groningen, Netherlands
- Luciano Baresi, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devambu, UC Davis, United States 
- Zhenjiang Hu, Peking University, China
- Robyn Lutz, Iowa State University, United States
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)
  
#### 2022
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada (chair)
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devambu, UC Davis, United States
- Mark Harman, Facebook and UCL, United Kingdom
- Jon Whittle, CSIRO's Data61, Australia
- Tao Xie, Peking University, China
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2021
- Will Tracz (chair)
- Laurie Dillon
- Mike Wing

Commit message:

Centralize awards content in a landing page. (#71)
* new branch for awards overview (#68)

* adds content common to all awards pages to a signle Awards Overview page.

* modify awards page to increase accuracy with respect to process and awards benefits

* removes common content from individual awards pages, points to central awards page as appropriate.

* updates the impact paper page, with minor requisite modifications to the main awards page

* markdown typos

* adds that awards are not posthumous, and a caveat on eligibility

* fixes the link to main awards page

* Adds committee's ability to decline to reward if no suitable noms received.

* clarifies honorarium and travel support

* fixes ESEC/FSE name on impact paper

* removes from Anger award extraneous text missed in initial refactor

* fixes spelling mistake

* fixes even more spelling mistakes

* corrects FSE acronym

* attempts to clarify the shared honorarium

---------

Co-authored-by: Yongqiang Tian <41743566+yqtianust@users.noreply.github.com>

content/awards/distinguishedService.md, after:

---
weight: 3
bookFlatSection: true
title: " Distinguished Service Award "
aliases: "/awards/distinguishedServiceAward.html"
---

This annual award is presented to individuals who have contributed dedicated and
important service to the software engineering community. The committee considers
all external nominations in the context of the nominees' specific and general
service contributions to the overall software engineering community.

Criteria that the committee considers in evaluating nominations include:

1. Service to ACM SIGSOFT
2. Service to the software engineering community outside of SIGSOFT
3. Service to broadening participation of underrepresented groups in software engineering
4. Service to students
5. Length of time serving the software engineering community
6. Other service contributions

Consult the [main SIGSOFT Awards page](/awards/sigsoftAwards/) for key dates, nomination and eligibility instructions, and a link to the submission portal. 

If you have questions about this award, please contact sigsoft-service-award (at) acm (dot) org.

## Winners
- 2025 Mauro Pezzé, USI Università della Svizzera Italiana Lugano (Switzerland), "For service to the software engineering community for three decades, and specifically for his recent contributions to TOSEM as Editor-in-Chief." 
- 2024  Massimiliano Di Penta, University of Sannio, for outstanding service to the software engineering community, including serving as program co-chair for all premier software engineering conferences and several other events.
- 2023 John Grundy, Monash University, for continued outstanding service to the software engineering community, including the repeated successful organization of flagship conferences, and leadership in the Australasian research and education community
- 2022	Joanne M. Atlee, University of Waterloo, for sustained, outstanding service to the software engineering community and enabling a research environment in software engineering world-wide that is equitable, diverse and inclusive
- 2021	Tao Xie, Peking University, for outstanding service contributions to the software engineering community, including substantial activities on SIGSOFT history, broadening participation in software engineering, and successful chairing of technical events
- 2020	Nenad Medvidović
- 2019	Matt Dwyer
- 2018	David S. Rosenblum
- 2017	Laura Dillon
- 2016	Martin Glinz
- 2015	Bashar Nuseibeh
- 2014	Leon Osterweil
- 2013	Wilhelm Schäfer
- 2012	Alexander Wolf
- 2011	Jeff Kramer
- 2010	Mary Lou Soffa
- 2009	Stuart Zweben
- 2008	John C. Knight
- 2007	David Notkin
- 2006	Carlo Ghezzi
- 2005	Richard N. Taylor
- 2004	Will Tracz
- 2003	Axel van Lamsweerde
- 2002	Lori Clarke
- 2001	Kouichi Kishida
- 2000	Marvin Zelkowitz
- 1999	Bill Riddle
- 1998	Bruce Barnes
- 1997	Peter Neumann
- 1996	Rick Adrion
- 1995	Tony Wasserman

## Committees


#### 2025
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and LERO, University of Limerick, Ireland (chair)
- Benoit Baudry, University of Montreal, Canada
- Domenico Bianculli, University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Jialun Cao, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, China
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw University, USA
- Jun Sun, SMU, Singapore
- Lin Tan, Purdue University, USA
- Yang Liu, NTU, Singapore
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, UK
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada  (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- Claire Le Goues, Carnegie Mellon University, USA (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2024 
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (chair)
- Filippo Lanubile, University of Bari, Italy (deputy chair)
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Katsuro Inoue, Nanzan University, Japan
- Barbara Paech, Heidelberg University, Germany
- David Shepherd, Louisiana State University, USA 
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw State University, USA
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)
  
#### 2023 
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom (chair)
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (deputy chair)
- Paris Avgeriou, University of Groningen, Netherlands
- Luciano Baresi, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devambu, UC Davis, United States 
- Zhenjiang Hu, Peking University, China
- Robyn Lutz, Iowa State University, United States
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)
  
#### 2022
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada (chair)
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devambu, UC Davis, United States
- Mark Harman, Facebook and UCL, United Kingdom
- Jon Whittle, CSIRO's Data61, Australia
- Tao Xie, Peking University, China
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2021
- Will Tracz (chair)
- Laurie Dillon
- Mike Wing
