content/awards/outstandingResearch.md, before:

---
weight: 3
bookFlatSection: true
title: "Outstanding Research Award"
aliases: "/awards/outstandingResearchAward.html"
---

This award is presented to an individual or individuals who have made significant and lasting research contributions to the theory or practice of software engineering.

The award recipients share a $1000 honorarium, and each recipient receives a plaque engraved with their name and signed by the chair of SIGSOFT. The award is announced by the SIGSOFT chair at ICSE during ICSE's award presentation session. The award recipients are invited to give a keynote presentation at the ICSE conference in the year in which the award is made. Each award recipient also receives travel support up to $2500 within their home continent and up to $3000 outside their home continent, including airfare, hotel, and conference registration to attend the ICSE conference.

The selection committee solicits nominations from the software engineering community in a variety of ways including announcements in SIGSOFT's newsletter, Software Engineering Notes, and postings on appropriate newsgroups and websites. The committee considers all external nominations in the context of the nominees' research contributions to software engineering. The selection committee shall also have the option to decline to make an award in a given year, if no suitable nominations are presented.

To submit a nomination for the award, please use the [awards nomination portal](https://sigsoft-awards.hotcrp.com/). Please note that:

* An intent to nominate must be submitted in the nomination system by October 6, 2025. The intent submission is very lightweight and only requires: (1) full name(s) and afﬁliation(s) of the nominee(s), (2) contact information of the nominator, and (3) some metadata. If no intent is received by the deadline, the nomination will be deemed late and not considered for this round of award selection.

* A single PDF containing the nomination package must be submitted through the portal to complete the submission by October 20, 2025 (two weeks after the registration deadline). The PDF should contain the following:
  1. Full name(s) and afﬁliation(s) of the nominee(s)
  2. Proposed citation (up to 25 words)
  3. Succinct description of why the nominee(s) is well-qualiﬁed for the award (100-250 words)
  4. Detailed nomination statement (no length limit, but please be reasonable)
  5. Up to three support letters (200-300 words will be sufﬁcient for each support letter, although longer statements of support are of course welcome). Each support letter must include the following sentence: "To the best of my knowledge, the candidate I am endorsing has not committed any action that violates the ACM Code of Ethics and ACM's Core Values.

If you have questions about this award, please contact sigsoft-research-award (at) acm (dot) org.

## Winners
- 2025  Martin Rinard, MIT, for fundamental contributions in pioneering the new fields of program repair and approximate computing.
- 2024  Tsong Yueh Chen, Swinburne University of Technology, for contributions to software testing through the invention and development of metamorphic testing.
- 2023  Gail Murphy, University of British Columbia, for pioneering contributions to recommenders for software engineering and program comprehension that have impacted both theory and practice
- 2022	Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa and Centre for ICT Security, Reliability, and Trust (SnT), University of Luxembourg, for contributions in software testing, software quality assurance, and context-driven software engineering research, notably in exemplary collaborations with industry
- 2021	Prem Devanbu, UC Davis, for profoundly changing the way researchers think about software by exploring connections between source code and natural language
- 2020	Michael Ernst
- 2019	Mark Harman
- 2018	Andreas Zeller
- 2017	Daniel Jackson
- 2016	James Herbsleb
- 2015	Carlo Ghezzi
- 2014	Alexander Wolf
- 2013	David Notkin
- 2012	Lori Clarke
- 2011	David Garlan and Mary Shaw
- 2010	Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides (posthumously)
- 2009	Richard N. Taylor
- 2008	Axel van Lamsweerde
- 2007	Elaine J. Weyuker
- 2006	David Harel
- 2005	Jeff Kramer and Jeff Magee
- 2004	Nancy Leveson
- 2003	Leon J. Osterweil
- 2002	Gerard Holzmann
- 2001	Michael Jackson
- 2000	Victor Basili
- 1999	Harlan Mills (one-time posthumous)
- 1999	Niklaus Wirth
- 1998	David Parnas
- 1997	Barry Boehm

## Committee

#### 2025
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and LERO, University of Limerick, Ireland (chair)
- Benoit Baudry, University of Montreal, Canada
- Domenico Bianculli, University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Jialun Cao, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, China
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw University, USA
- Jun Sun, SMU, Singapore
- Lin Tan, Purdue University, USA
- Yang Liu, NTU, Singapore
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, UK
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada  (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- Claire Le Goues, Carnegie Mellon University, USA (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2024
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (chair)
- Filippo Lanubile, University of Bari, Italy (deputy chair)
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Katsuro Inoue, Nanzan University, Japan
- Barbara Paech, Heidelberg University, Germany
- David Shepherd, Louisiana State University, USA 
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw State University, USA
- Sebastian Uchitel, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2023
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom (chair)
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (deputy chair)
- Paris Avgeriou, University of Groningen, Netherlands
- Luciano Baresi, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devambu, UC Davis, United States 
- Zhenjiang Hu, Peking University, China
- Robyn Lutz, Iowa State University, United States
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2022
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada (chair)
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devanbu, UC Davis, United States
- Mark Harman, Facebook and UCL, United Kingdom
- Jon Whittle, CSIRO's Data61, Australia
- Tao Xie, Peking University, China
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)
#### 2021
- Marsha Chechik (Chair)
- Mark Harman
- Jane Cleland-Huang
- Massimiliano Di Penta

Commit message:

Centralize awards content in a landing page. (#71)
* new branch for awards overview (#68)

* adds content common to all awards pages to a signle Awards Overview page.

* modify awards page to increase accuracy with respect to process and awards benefits

* removes common content from individual awards pages, points to central awards page as appropriate.

* updates the impact paper page, with minor requisite modifications to the main awards page

* markdown typos

* adds that awards are not posthumous, and a caveat on eligibility

* fixes the link to main awards page

* Adds committee's ability to decline to reward if no suitable noms received.

* clarifies honorarium and travel support

* fixes ESEC/FSE name on impact paper

* removes from Anger award extraneous text missed in initial refactor

* fixes spelling mistake

* fixes even more spelling mistakes

* corrects FSE acronym

* attempts to clarify the shared honorarium

---------

Co-authored-by: Yongqiang Tian <41743566+yqtianust@users.noreply.github.com>

content/awards/outstandingResearch.md, after:

---
weight: 3
bookFlatSection: true
title: "Outstanding Research Award"
aliases: "/awards/outstandingResearchAward.html"
---

This award is presented to an individual or individuals who have made significant and lasting research contributions to the theory or practice of software engineering.

In addition to the typical awards benefits, recipients are invited to give a keynote presentation at the ICSE conference in the year in which the award is made.

Consult the [main SIGSOFT Awards page](/awards/sigsoftAwards/) for key dates, nomination and eligibility instructions, and a link to the submission portal. 

If you have questions about this award, please contact sigsoft-research-award (at) acm (dot) org.

## Winners
- 2025  Martin Rinard, MIT, for fundamental contributions in pioneering the new fields of program repair and approximate computing.
- 2024  Tsong Yueh Chen, Swinburne University of Technology, for contributions to software testing through the invention and development of metamorphic testing.
- 2023  Gail Murphy, University of British Columbia, for pioneering contributions to recommenders for software engineering and program comprehension that have impacted both theory and practice
- 2022	Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa and Centre for ICT Security, Reliability, and Trust (SnT), University of Luxembourg, for contributions in software testing, software quality assurance, and context-driven software engineering research, notably in exemplary collaborations with industry
- 2021	Prem Devanbu, UC Davis, for profoundly changing the way researchers think about software by exploring connections between source code and natural language
- 2020	Michael Ernst
- 2019	Mark Harman
- 2018	Andreas Zeller
- 2017	Daniel Jackson
- 2016	James Herbsleb
- 2015	Carlo Ghezzi
- 2014	Alexander Wolf
- 2013	David Notkin
- 2012	Lori Clarke
- 2011	David Garlan and Mary Shaw
- 2010	Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides (posthumously)
- 2009	Richard N. Taylor
- 2008	Axel van Lamsweerde
- 2007	Elaine J. Weyuker
- 2006	David Harel
- 2005	Jeff Kramer and Jeff Magee
- 2004	Nancy Leveson
- 2003	Leon J. Osterweil
- 2002	Gerard Holzmann
- 2001	Michael Jackson
- 2000	Victor Basili
- 1999	Harlan Mills (one-time posthumous)
- 1999	Niklaus Wirth
- 1998	David Parnas
- 1997	Barry Boehm

## Committee

#### 2025
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and LERO, University of Limerick, Ireland (chair)
- Benoit Baudry, University of Montreal, Canada
- Domenico Bianculli, University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Jialun Cao, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, China
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw University, USA
- Jun Sun, SMU, Singapore
- Lin Tan, Purdue University, USA
- Yang Liu, NTU, Singapore
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, UK
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada  (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- Claire Le Goues, Carnegie Mellon University, USA (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2024
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (chair)
- Filippo Lanubile, University of Bari, Italy (deputy chair)
- Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and University of Luxembourg, Luxembourg
- Katsuro Inoue, Nanzan University, Japan
- Barbara Paech, Heidelberg University, Germany
- David Shepherd, Louisiana State University, USA
- Paola Spoletini, Kennesaw State University, USA
- Sebastian Uchitel, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2023
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom (chair)
- Walid Maalej, University of Hamburg, Germany (deputy chair)
- Paris Avgeriou, University of Groningen, Netherlands
- Luciano Baresi, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devambu, UC Davis, United States
- Zhenjiang Hu, Peking University, China
- Robyn Lutz, Iowa State University, United States
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)

#### 2022
- Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada (chair)
- Daniela Damian, University of Victoria, Canada
- Prem Devanbu, UC Davis, United States
- Mark Harman, Facebook and UCL, United Kingdom
- Jon Whittle, CSIRO's Data61, Australia
- Tao Xie, Peking University, China
- Andrea Zisman, Open University, United Kingdom
- Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research, United States (SIGSOFT chair, non-voting)
- David Lo, Singapore Management University, Singapore (SIGSOFT award chair, non-voting)
#### 2021
- Marsha Chechik (Chair)
- Mark Harman
- Jane Cleland-Huang
- Massimiliano Di Penta
