content/awards/sigsoftAwards.md, before:

---
weight: 1
bookFlatSection: true
title: "SIGSOFT Awards Overview"
aliases: "/awards/sigsoftAwards.html"
---

# ACM SIGSOFT Awards

ACM SIGSOFT recognizes excellence in software engineering through several
awards, presented annually. These awards honor outstanding contributions to our
field, throughout our colleagues' careers. Awards are typically presented to
individuals, but can be awarded jointly when circumstances warrant, such as for
joint contributions.  Awards are not given posthumously.

## Award Categories

### Senior Awards
- **[Distinguished Service
Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/distinguishedservice/)** - Recognizes
dedicated and important service to the software engineering community 
- **[Outstanding Research Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/outstandingresearch/)** - Honors
significant and lasting research contributions to the theory or practice of
software engineering
- **[Influential Educator Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/influentialeducator/)** - Celebrates
significant contributions and impact on software engineering education as a
teacher, mentor, researcher, author, and/or policy maker

### Junior Awards
- **[Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/dissertation/)** - Presented to the author of an outstanding doctoral dissertation in software engineering
- **[Early Career Researcher Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/earlycareerresearcher/)** - Recognizes outstanding contributions by early career investigators
- **[Frank Anger Memorial Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/anger/)** - Student travel award promoting cross-disciplinary research between SIGSOFT and SIGBED communities

### Impact Award
- **[Impact Paper Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/impactpaper/)** - Recognizes papers from SIGSOFT conferences that have had significant influence

## Nomination Process

All awards follow a similar nomination process, with two key deadlines:

### Important Dates for 2025
- **Intent to Nominate Deadline: October 6, 2025** (First Monday in October)
- **Full Nomination Package Deadline: October 20, 2025** (Two weeks after intent deadline)

### How to Nominate
1. Submit an **intent to nominate** through the [awards nomination portal](https://sigsoft-awards.hotcrp.com/) by the first deadline
   - The intent submission is very lightweight and only requires: (1) full name(s) and
   afﬁliation(s) of the nominee(s), (2) contact information of the nominator,
   and (3) some metadata. If no intent is received by the deadline, the
   nomination will be deemed late and will not be considered in the current award year. 
2. Submit the complete nomination package as a single PDF by the second deadline

Nominators of candidates who are not selected in a given award year will be
given the option to reuse nomination materials unmodified for up to two
consecutive additional years.

### Shared Nomination Requirements and eligibility

*Note: Certain awards have additional or different requirements and eligibility
 restrictions. Consult individual award pages for complete details.*

Nomination packages for all but the Impact Paper and Frank Anger awards should include:
- Full name(s) and affiliation(s) of nominee(s)
- Proposed citation (up to 25 words)
- Succinct description of why the nominee(s) is well-qualified for the award (100-250 words)
- Detailed nomination statement (no length limit, but please be reasonable)
- Up to three support letters (200-300 words is sufficient for support letters, although longer statements of support are of course welcome)
- **Important**: Each support letter must include the following sentence: *"To the best of my knowledge, the candidate I am endorsing has not committed any action that violates the ACM Code of Ethics and ACM's Core Values."*

#### Eligibility 

- Self nominations are permitted.
- The same individual cannot be nominated for different SIGSOFT awards in the
  same year.  However, the committee reserves the right to consider an
  individual for a different award than the one for which they are nominated, if
  they deem it more suitable.
- In general, SIGSOFT will not select individuals recognized  by an award from
  another professional society to receive an equivalent or 
  substantially similar SIGSOFT award.  Nominations of such individuals are
  permitted, but must include a clear justification for the nomination that articulates
  and justifies the special circumstances that motivate considering the nominee
  for such a substantially similar award (the committee reserves the right to accept or deny the justification). 

In general, the selection committee shall have the option to decline to make an award in a given year, if no suitable nominations are received.

## Award Benefits

Awards are presented by SIGSOFT at ICSE during ICSE’s award presentation session.
Recipients receive a plaque engraved with their name and signed by the chair of
SIGSOFT.

Recipient(s) of the Outstanding Research, Influential Educator, Distinguished Service, Early Career Researcher, and Outstanding Dissertation awards, receive a $1000 honorarium and support for
travel to ICSE of up to $2500 within
their home continent, and up to $3000 outside their home continent. Recipients of the Impact Paper award share a $1000 honorarium, and receive comparable support to travel to FSE.  

Some awards include other benefits; consult individual pages for award-specific details. 

## Process

SIGSOFT solicits nominations from the software engineering community in a
variety of ways including announcements in SIGSOFT's newsletter, Software
Engineering Notes, and postings on appropriate newsgroups and websites. Each
award's selection committee evaluates nominations based on award-specific criteria.
Committees have the option to decline making an award if no suitable nominations
are received.

### 2025 Committee Leadership
- **Senior Awards Committee Chair**: Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and LERO, University of Limerick, Ireland
- **Junior Awards Committee Chair**: Aldeida Aleti, Monash University, Australia
- **Impact Paper Award Committee Chair**: Abhik Roychoudhury, National University of Singapore, Singapore
- **SIGSOFT Chair** (non-voting): Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada
- **SIGSOFT Award Chair** (non-voting): Claire Le Goues, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

## Contact Information

The Awards Chair may be reached at sigsoft-awards-chair (at) acm (dot) org

For questions about specific awards:
- Distinguished Service: sigsoft-service-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Outstanding Research: sigsoft-research-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Influential Educator: sigsoft-educator-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation: sigsoft-dissertation-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Early Career Researcher: sigsoft-early-career-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Frank Anger Memorial: sigsoft-angermemorial-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Impact Paper: sigsoft-impact-award (at) acm (dot) org



## Past Recipients

Visit individual award pages to see the complete list of past recipients and
learn about their contributions to the software engineering community.

Commit message:

attempts to clarify the shared honorarium

content/awards/sigsoftAwards.md, after:

---
weight: 1
bookFlatSection: true
title: "SIGSOFT Awards Overview"
aliases: "/awards/sigsoftAwards.html"
---

# ACM SIGSOFT Awards

ACM SIGSOFT recognizes excellence in software engineering through several
awards, presented annually. These awards honor outstanding contributions to our
field, throughout our colleagues' careers. Awards are typically presented to
individuals, but can be awarded jointly when circumstances warrant, such as for
joint contributions.  Awards are not given posthumously.

## Award Categories

### Senior Awards
- **[Distinguished Service
Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/distinguishedservice/)** - Recognizes
dedicated and important service to the software engineering community 
- **[Outstanding Research Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/outstandingresearch/)** - Honors
significant and lasting research contributions to the theory or practice of
software engineering
- **[Influential Educator Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/influentialeducator/)** - Celebrates
significant contributions and impact on software engineering education as a
teacher, mentor, researcher, author, and/or policy maker

### Junior Awards
- **[Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/dissertation/)** - Presented to the author of an outstanding doctoral dissertation in software engineering
- **[Early Career Researcher Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/earlycareerresearcher/)** - Recognizes outstanding contributions by early career investigators
- **[Frank Anger Memorial Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/anger/)** - Student travel award promoting cross-disciplinary research between SIGSOFT and SIGBED communities

### Impact Award
- **[Impact Paper Award](https://www2.sigsoft.org/awards/impactpaper/)** - Recognizes papers from SIGSOFT conferences that have had significant influence

## Nomination Process

All awards follow a similar nomination process, with two key deadlines:

### Important Dates for 2025
- **Intent to Nominate Deadline: October 6, 2025** (First Monday in October)
- **Full Nomination Package Deadline: October 20, 2025** (Two weeks after intent deadline)

### How to Nominate
1. Submit an **intent to nominate** through the [awards nomination portal](https://sigsoft-awards.hotcrp.com/) by the first deadline
   - The intent submission is very lightweight and only requires: (1) full name(s) and
   afﬁliation(s) of the nominee(s), (2) contact information of the nominator,
   and (3) some metadata. If no intent is received by the deadline, the
   nomination will be deemed late and will not be considered in the current award year. 
2. Submit the complete nomination package as a single PDF by the second deadline

Nominators of candidates who are not selected in a given award year will be
given the option to reuse nomination materials unmodified for up to two
consecutive additional years.

### Shared Nomination Requirements and eligibility

*Note: Certain awards have additional or different requirements and eligibility
 restrictions. Consult individual award pages for complete details.*

Nomination packages for all but the Impact Paper and Frank Anger awards should include:
- Full name(s) and affiliation(s) of nominee(s)
- Proposed citation (up to 25 words)
- Succinct description of why the nominee(s) is well-qualified for the award (100-250 words)
- Detailed nomination statement (no length limit, but please be reasonable)
- Up to three support letters (200-300 words is sufficient for support letters, although longer statements of support are of course welcome)
- **Important**: Each support letter must include the following sentence: *"To the best of my knowledge, the candidate I am endorsing has not committed any action that violates the ACM Code of Ethics and ACM's Core Values."*

#### Eligibility 

- Self nominations are permitted.
- The same individual cannot be nominated for different SIGSOFT awards in the
  same year.  However, the committee reserves the right to consider an
  individual for a different award than the one for which they are nominated, if
  they deem it more suitable.
- In general, SIGSOFT will not select individuals recognized  by an award from
  another professional society to receive an equivalent or 
  substantially similar SIGSOFT award.  Nominations of such individuals are
  permitted, but must include a clear justification for the nomination that articulates
  and justifies the special circumstances that motivate considering the nominee
  for such a substantially similar award (the committee reserves the right to accept or deny the justification). 

In general, the selection committee shall have the option to decline to make an award in a given year, if no suitable nominations are received.

## Award Benefits

Awards are presented by SIGSOFT at ICSE during ICSE’s award presentation session.
Recipients receive a plaque engraved with their name and signed by the chair of
SIGSOFT.

Recipient(s) of the Outstanding Research, Influential Educator, Distinguished Service, Early Career Researcher, and Outstanding Dissertation awards, typically receive a $1000 honorarium (shared, if multiple recipients are jointly recognized), and support for
travel to ICSE of up to $2500 within
their home continent, and up to $3000 outside their home continent. Recipients of the Impact Paper award share a $1000 honorarium, and receive comparable support to travel to FSE.  

Some awards include other benefits; consult individual pages for award-specific details. 

## Process

SIGSOFT solicits nominations from the software engineering community in a
variety of ways including announcements in SIGSOFT's newsletter, Software
Engineering Notes, and postings on appropriate newsgroups and websites. Each
award's selection committee evaluates nominations based on award-specific criteria.
Committees have the option to decline making an award if no suitable nominations
are received.

### 2025 Committee Leadership
- **Senior Awards Committee Chair**: Lionel Briand, University of Ottawa, Canada and LERO, University of Limerick, Ireland
- **Junior Awards Committee Chair**: Aldeida Aleti, Monash University, Australia
- **Impact Paper Award Committee Chair**: Abhik Roychoudhury, National University of Singapore, Singapore
- **SIGSOFT Chair** (non-voting): Marsha Chechik, University of Toronto, Canada
- **SIGSOFT Award Chair** (non-voting): Claire Le Goues, Carnegie Mellon University, USA

## Contact Information

The Awards Chair may be reached at sigsoft-awards-chair (at) acm (dot) org

For questions about specific awards:
- Distinguished Service: sigsoft-service-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Outstanding Research: sigsoft-research-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Influential Educator: sigsoft-educator-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation: sigsoft-dissertation-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Early Career Researcher: sigsoft-early-career-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Frank Anger Memorial: sigsoft-angermemorial-award (at) acm (dot) org
- Impact Paper: sigsoft-impact-award (at) acm (dot) org



## Past Recipients

Visit individual award pages to see the complete list of past recipients and
learn about their contributions to the software engineering community.
