
+++
title = "1995-1996 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July, 1995 - June, 1996

## Submitted by: Lori A. Clarke, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT continued to have another active and successful year. The
highlights include a new student scholarship program, a very active
newsletter, an on-going award program, and a strong conference program.

This year we initiated a scholarship fund, **Conference Attendance
Program for Students (CAPS)**, that will provide travel funds to
students to attend SIGSOFT sponsored conferences. It is hoped that CAPS
will encourage students to attend and to submit papers to software
engineering conferences. Under the direction of Mary Lou Soffa,
guidelines for the program were drafted, approved, announced in our
newsletter and posted on the web. An approval committee has been put in
place and funds were budgeted for support. Now we are waiting for our
first applications.

The *Software Engineering Newsletter (SEN)* has been undergoing a
revitalization. Although always a very successful and lively newsletter,
Will Tracz has infused his own personality and enthusiasm. After much
debate, we approved a new cover design. We also have moved to desktop
publishing, so that the format and style are more consistent. To support
this effort, we purchased a 133Mhtz Pentium, 1200DPI printer, scanner,
28.8 modem as well as MicroSoft Office, Win 3.1.1, FrameMaker, and some
Clip Art. We hope to purchase a camera in the near future so that we can
more easily incorporate photos from our conferences and meetings. The
number of submissions to *SEN* continues to grow as does the backlog.
Thus, we instituted a new page limit of 6 pages for regular submissions
and 10 pages for workshop and conference reports. Authors are encouraged
to include URL\'s to longer version of their articles, if this page
limit is too burdensome.

There are now three column editors for *SEN*: Peter Neumann continues as
editor of the very popular Risks column, Barbara Ann Kitchenham has
taken over for Shari Lawrence Pfleeger the Evaluating Software Methods
column; and Mark Doernhoefer has taken over for Chuck Howell the column
on Surfing the Net. In addition, we have columns on the **International
Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)** and the **Foundations of
Software Engineering (FSE)** that keep our members up-to-date on the two
primary conferences in software engineering. There is also a book review
column where members receive a free copy of newly published books in
return for writing reviews. Finally, there are production assistants to
help assemble each issue. In this capacity, Malcome Slovin is overseeing
the Calendar of Events. Overall, Will has been very successful in
improving the look of *SEN* and in recruiting a number of energetic and
talented volunteers. There is more to be done, however, and we hope to
attract additional volunteers.

We have continued to improve our web site. Tom Ostrand serves as our
information director and Bob Munch has volunteered to be webmaster.
There is currently information available on the web about SIGSOFT, our
conferences, and past issues of *SEN*.

Our conference program continues to be strong. **ICSE\'96** in Berlin
was very successful, with increased attendance. Plans are well underway
for **ICSE\'97** in Boston and **ICSE\'98** in Japan. **ICSE\'97** is
attempting to increase participation by widening the scope of the
conference to include topics that inter-relate with software
engineering, such as computer human interfaces and information
retrieval, and by expanding the trade show. **FSE\'95** did not fare
quite so well this past year, with a slight decline in attendance. There
were problems with publicity that we believe we have addressed for this
coming year. **FSE\'96** has a strong program planned for October in San
Francisco. **FSE\'97** is going to be held jointly with the **European
Software Engineering Conference**, September 97 in Zurich. Our other two
regular conferences are the **Software Reuse Symposium**, which
co-locates with **ICSE** every other year when **ICSE** is in the U.S.,
and the **International Conference on Software Testing and Analysis
(ISSTA)**. **ISSTA** has had a problem deciding on a regular schedule,
but this last year the steering committee agreed on a schedule and
guidelines for the conference. The next **ISSTA** will be March 1998 and
then early summer every other year. The **Formal Methods Workshop**
co-located with **ISSTA** this last year. The two areas have some common
concerns and co-locating provided opportunities for some interesting
interactions. Both communities are discussing co-locating in the future.
Thus, this year we continued to move closer to our goal of providing a
well-scheduled and coherent conference and workshop program.

ICSE is the forum where we present the **SIGSOFT Award for Distinguished
Service to the Software Engineering Community**. This year the award was
given to Rick Adrion, who held several positions at NSF, was past
SIGSOFT chair, and founding editor-in-chief of *TOSEM*, to name just a
few of his contributions. Tony Wasserman, who received the first
distinguished service award, has agreed to chair the selection committee
this next year. Requests for nominations will be published in *SEN*.

As usual we had general meetings at both **FSE** and **ICSE**. The
meetings have been well attended. At **ICSE** there was a lively
discussion, as reported in the July issue of *SEN*.

In term of our future plans, we would like to continue to improve our
web pages, providing more information electronically. It would be
particularly helpful if ACM would have a conference organizers page that
we could point to that would take first time conference organizers
through the process step by step. Even inveterate conference organizers
would find this useful since the process continues to change. We would
also like to see better advertising of SIGSOFT. Since most of our
benefits are provided as part of our general membership package, instead
of as add-ons, it would be appropriate to have these listed on the
membership forms. We plan to choose a logo for SIGSOFT; we looked at
several proposed designs this past year but have yet to find one that
meets with any enthusiasm. Finally, we are in the process of forming a
nominating committee to find candidates for the upcoming SIGSOFT
elections. Dick Taylor has agreed to serve as chair of the nominating
committee. As usual, requests for nominations will be published in
*SEN*.

