
+++
title = "1997-1998 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July, 1998 - June, 1999

## Submitted by: David Notkin, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT has had another strong year.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s **ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service
Award** was presented to Bill Riddle, who has served the software
engineering community in innumerable ways (including serving as chair of
SIGSOFT a number of years ago). This year we awarded two **Outstanding
Research Awards**. The first went, in a one-time posthumous award, to
Harlan Mills. The presentation was made to his widow at the Harlan Mills
memorial workshop, which was held at the 1999 International Conference
on Software Engineering in Los Angeles. The second went to Niklaus Wirth
and will be presented in Toulouse, France, at the ESEC/FSE joint
conference in September. Joint with IEEE TCSE, we also continued to
award the Most Influential Paper from ICSE N-10, which this year went to
the ICSE-11 paper *\"The Inscape Environment\"*, authored by Dewayne
Perry. We made several awards to students for travel support to
SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences, under our CAPS program. Several of the
new ACM Fellows are members of SIGSOFT, a fact that is very rewarding.

We have two specific issues with respect to awards that need to be
handled. One, several years ago the SIGSOFT Executive Committee agreed
to have Program Committees name up to 10% of the papers from conferences
as Distinguished Papers; we have, however, never put this decision into
action. We plan to do so this year, also understanding that we need to
clear this through the ACM awards committee. And two, we need to make
the award nomination process more visible and active. We plan to do this
by advertising in SEN and other appropriate venues.

We have been involved this year in a number of significant and
innovative programs.

-   We have been closely involved with ACM HQ in the issues surrounding
    software engineering as a profession. This is an extremely
    complicated and visible issue that the entire community is
    struggling with. ACM has taken a position that is proactive with
    respect to R&D in software, to developing a core body of knowledge
    for software engineering, and for identifying standards of practice.
    At the same time, the ACM has taken a position against the licensing
    of software engineers, because such licensing would be premature and
    ineffective. The blue ribbon panel that advised the ACM Council was
    divided on these issues and, indeed, the SIGSOFT leadership and
    membership are divided on these issues. However, we feel uniformly
    that the public discussion of these important issues continues to be
    in the interest of society and the software engineering community.

-   Our major conferences (Foundations of Software Engineering, the
    International Conference on Software Testing and Analysis, and the
    International Conference on Software Engineering) continue to be
    strong. FSE 1998 was held in Orlando, with a leadership team of Lee
    Osterweil (general chair), Bill Scherlis (program chair), and Will
    Tracz (local arrangements). ICSE 1999 was held in Los Angeles with a
    leadership team of Barry Boehm (general chair) and David Garlan and
    Jeff Kramer (program co-chairs). Both programs were highly
    successful; financially, FSE showed a solid profit but ICSE lost
    money for the first time in over a decade. (SIGSOFT has 50%
    responsibility for ICSE when held in North America, with the IEEE CS
    taking the other half.) We will work closely with the Steering
    Committee and the organizers of future ICSEs to ensure that we
    don\'t lose money again in the future.

    FSE 2000 will be in San Diego, with John Knight as general chair and
    David Rosenblum as program chair. We are currently negotiating a
    Joint Sponsorship Agreement with ESEC (the European Software
    Engineering Conference); if successful, we will commit to three more
    joint conferences with ESEC in 2001, 2003, and 2005, all in Europe.

    ICSE 2000 will be in Limerick Ireland (Carlo Ghezzi is the general
    chair, Alex Wolf and Mehdi Jazayeri are the program co-chairs, and
    Kevin Ryan is the local arrangements chair). ICSE 2001 will be in
    Toronto, with Hausi Mueller as general chair and Mary Jean Harrold
    and Wilhelm Schaefer as program co-chairs. ICSE 2002 will almost
    certainly be in Buenos Aires, Argentina, with Will Tracz as general
    chair with Jeff Magee and Michal Young as program co-chairs.

-   To work to continue strengthening our ties with SIGPLAN, we are
    holding the second PASTE workshop (Program Analysis for Software
    Tools and Engineering) jointly with SIGPLAN, with the workshop
    collocated with ESEC/FSE 99 in France. We are now identifying a set
    of SIGSOFT and SIGPLAN conferences that we will set up for ongoing
    in-cooperation-with status.

-   SIGSOFT, along with three other SIGs (CHI, GROUP, and MOD),
    co-sponsored WACC \'99, the International Joint Conference on Work
    Activities and Coordination and Collaboration. The conference was
    successful and discussions about a second one, probably held in
    Europe, are ongoing. Dick Taylor led the team as general chair, with
    a set of four program chairs, one from each SIG.

-   Will Tracz, with an ever-growing cadre of volunteers, has continued
    to make our newsletter, *SEN*, stronger and stronger. With new
    columns, new blood, and lots of energy, *SEN* is a great member
    benefit for SIGSOFT.

-   SIGSOFT was invited to make a showcase presentation at the ACM
    Council meeting in May 1999, only the third SIG to do so.

-   We are working with the publications board and staff to ensure an
    orderly transition of the editor-in-chief of ACM Transactions on
    Software Engineering and Methodology, when Axel van Lamsweerde\'s
    second term completes at the end of 2000. As always, we are working
    to ensure that we will get an absolutely first-rate researcher and
    leader to help maintain TOSEM\'s quality and reputation.

One major goal in the next year is to simultaneously increase
interactions with other SIGS while also trying to regularize our
conferences and conference schedule. Another major goal, which we share
with other SIGs and the ACM overall, is to continue to try to understand
what value we should provide to our members to ensure that SIGSOFT is an
organization that people want to be members of.

