
+++
title = "1999-2000 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 1999 - June 2000

## Submitted by: David Notkin, SIGSOFT Chair

On behalf of SIGSOFT\'s membership and leadership, I\'m happy to report
that we\'ve had another strong year. We\'ve continued our annual service
and research awards. Our Distinguished Service Award was presented to
Marv Zelkowitz, who has served the community in numerous ways for
several decades. Our Outstanding Research Award was awarded to Vic
Basili, for his many numerous contributions to research, especially in
empirical and experimental software engineering. As always, SIGSOFT
members were well represented in the ACM Fellows that were named this
year. (On the negative side, SIGSOFT \-\-- in particular, I \-\-- have
to follow through on two specific issues: putting the \"Distinguished
Papers\" into official form; and putting the research and service award
process into a more visible and clear state.) Our conference program
continues with great success. We\'ve signed an agreement to hold the
annual SIGSOFT (FSE, Foundations of Software Engineering) conference in
2001, 2003, and 2005 jointly with the European Software Engineering
Conference, as we did in 1997 and 1999, as well. This continues building
international relationships and also addresses head-on the problem we
see with an unncessary and costly proliferation of conferences in
software engineering. Both FSE and ISSTA (our testing and analysis
conference) will be held on the West Coast of the US this year, with
strong planning and leadership teams in place for both. ICSE 2000 was a
success in Limerick, Ireland; next year, we\'ll be in Toronto for ICSE,
the first Canadian instance of the conference. I\'d like to thank \-\--
really, since it\'s a thankless task! \-\-- all the people, especially
the leadership teams, who have made the SIGSOFT conferences of the last
year such a success.

The two major issues with respect to conferences that we continue to
address are related ones: one, we are still working to reduce the
conferences in software engineering, while trying to use workshops as a
way to cover new and emerging (as well as established) areas in more
depth; two, we are working to design a calendar where conferences don\'t
step on each others\' toes. This is hard enough with our own
conferences, and it\'s almost unimaginably hard given those conferences
created by other organizations. (Alex Wolf, vice-chair, has been working
these issues constantly, and I truly appreciate it.)

One of our key goals this year was to increase cooperation with some
other SIGs, especially PLAN. We continue to work with PLAN on PASTE
(Program Analysis for Software Tools and Engineering), have established
PLAN as providing on-going \"in cooperation\" status with our major
conferences. We also anticipated that we\'ll work with CHI, GROUP, and
MOD in organizing another WACC (International Joint Conference on Work
Activities and Coordination and Collaboration).

We\'re thrilled that the Pubs Board has named Carlo Ghezzi as the new
EIC of TOSEM. Replacing Axel van Lamsweerde\'s is impossible, but Carlo
is an absolutely first-rate researcher and leader who will further
increase TOSEM\'s quality and reputation. (One other success this year
was the TOSEM was finally added to the ISI Citation Index, after a
battle that took many, many years.) And, it cannot be said loudly enough
that we have a terrific newsletter, Software Engineering Notes, due
largely to the continued dedication of Will Tracz.

The issues swirling around \"software engineering as a profession\"
continue to be a discussion within the SIGSOFT community. SIGSOFT itself
has no public position on these issues, although ACM has taken a number
of actions. The SIGSOFT leadership and membership are divided on these
issues. However, we feel uniformly that the public discussion of these
important issues continues to be in the interest of society and the
software engineering community.

The final note is the usual one: our membership role continues to
decrease, consistent with most other SIGs. Despite significant thought
and attention, we\'re still unsure what to do or how to think about
this.

