
+++
title = "2001-2002 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2001 - June 2002

## Submitted by: Alexander Wolf, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT has had a strong, but challenging year. A new set of officers
took their positions, with only the Chair (and, of course, the Past
Chair) having served previously.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to Prof. Lori Clarke of the University of Massachusetts.
We awarded the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award to Dr. Gerard
Holzmann of Lucent Technologies. The awards were announced at ICSE 2002
in Orlando, with the presentation to Prof. Clarke taking place at the
conference. Dr. Holzmann will receive his award at SIGSOFT 2002 in
November 2002, and will give a keynote address. We also continued to
award the Most Influential Paper from ICSE N-10, which this year went to
the ICSE-12 (1992) paper \"Towards a Method of Programming with
Assertions\", authored by David Rosenblum. We made a number of awards to
students for travel support to SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences, under our
CAPS (Conference Attendance Program for Students) program. Finally, our
initiative to have the program committees of SIGSOFT-sponsored
conferences name up to 10% of their papers as Distinguished Papers was
approved by the ACM awards committee.

Our major conferences continue to be strong, but we met with some
serious challenges with some of them. ESEC/FSE 2001 was held in Vienna,
Austria, with a leadership team of A. Min Tjoa (general chair) and
Volker Gruhn (program chair). However, the conference began on the
evening of September 11th, which had an obvious effect on the
atmosphere, although not the finances, of the conference. ICSE 2002 was
held in Orlando, Florida, with a leadership team of Will Tracz (general
chair), and Jeff Magee and Michel Young (program co-chairs). The
conference was originally scheduled to be held in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, but the political crisis there in late 2001 caused the
difficult decision to move the event to Orlando. Only with the
incredible dedication and help of the ACM SIG Services staff were we
able to make the move with a minimum of disruption and lost revenue. In
fact, we expect the conference to result in a small surplus.

SIGOSFT 2002 will be in Charleston, South Carolina, with Mary Lou Soffa
as general chair and William Griswold as program chair. FSE 2003 will be
joint with the European Software Engineering Conference (ESEC) in
Helsinki, Finland, in September 2003, as the second of our three
negotiated conferences under a Joint Sponsorship Agreement. Paola
Inverardi is the program chair, and Jukka Paakki is the general chair.
ICSE 2003 will be in Portland, Oregon, with Lori Clarke as general
chair, and Laurie Dillon and Walter Tichy as program co-chairs. ICSE
2004 will be in Edinburgh, Scotland, with Anthony Finkelstein as general
chair, and David Rosenblum and Jacky Estublier as program co-chairs.
ICSE 2005 is planned for St. Louis, Missouri, with Catalin Roman as
General Chair.

We have begun two new co-sponsoring relationships. One with the IEEE
Computer Society on the UML conference series and the other with ACM
SIGMETRICS on the WOSP workshop series. The first UML co-sponsored event
is planned for Dresden, Germany, in September 2002. The second WOSP
co-sponsored event is planned for Rome, Italy, in July 2002.

Will Tracz has continued to make our newsletter, SEN, stronger and
stronger. With new columns, new blood, and lots of energy, SEN is a
great member benefit for SIGSOFT. However, SEN is expensive to produce,
and so provides a great opportunity to significantly reduce our costs.
We have begun an initiative to look at moving much of the SEN content on
line.

An important initiative that SIGSOFT has engaged in is the Impact
Project, whose goals are to conduct a scholarly assessment of the impact
of software engineering research on software engineering practice, and
to provide a roadmap for future research funding. SIGSOFT obtained a
grant from the U.S. National Science Foundation to partially fund the
activities of the group. The principal investigator of the grant is the
SIGSOFT Chair, Alexander Wolf. This is a truly international
collaboration, with participation from researchers and practitioners
from across the world. In addition, the British IEE has provided a grant
to support European participation. The Impact project can provide a
blueprint for how other ACM SIGs can conduct similar assessments.

