
+++
title = "2003-2004 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2003 - June 2004

## Submitted by: Alexander Wolf, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT has had a strong year, the third for the current administration.
Conference attendance rates appear to be picking up a bit and we are
beginning to see the financial benefits of moving the bulk of our
newsletter, Software Engineering Notes, on line.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to Dr. Will Tracz of Lockheed Martin Corporation. We
awarded the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award to Prof. Nancy
Leveson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The awards were
announced at ICSE 2004 in Edinburgh, with the presentation to Dr. Tracz
taking place at the conference. Prof. Leveson will receive her award at
SIGSOFT 2004 in November, and will give a keynote address. We also
continued to award the Most Influential Paper from ICSE N-10, which this
year went to the ICSE \'94 paper \"Formalizing Architectural
Connection\", authored by Robert Allen and David Garlan.

Finally, the program committees of SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences named
up to 10% of their papers as Distinguished Papers.

Our major meetings continue to be strong. We now sponsor or co-sponsor
approximately 12 major events, and are in cooperation with approximately
15 other major events. ICSE 2004, co-sponsored with the British IEE and
the IEEE Computer Society, was a technical success and well attended.
Unfortunately, budgeting was done in US dollars, which lost significant
value against the British pound. The result is likely to be a financial
loss due wholly to the problem of the exchange rate. ICSE 2005 will be
held in St. Louis and ICSE 2006 in Shanghai. Planning has begun for ICSE
2007 and ICSE 2008. The ICSE steering committee, which is responsible
for managing the conference series, was chaired by SIGSOFT at-large
executive committee member Jeff Magee and is now chaired by SIGSOFT
at-large executive committee member David Rosenblum.

We continue to make an increasing number of travel awards to students to
support their attendance at SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences, under our
CAPS (Conference Attendance Program for Students) program. The CAPS
program transitioned from management by volunteer Betty Cheng of
Michigan State University to volunteer Barbara Lerner of Williams
College. We are continuing to study ways of controlling growth in the
program and have instituted somewhat stricter requirements. We have also
gotten the IEEE Computer Society\'s Technical Committee on Software
Engineering to contribute to the program in support of ICSE attendance.

SIGSOFT continues to lead the Impact Project, whose goals are to conduct
a scholarly assessment of the impact of software engineering research on
software engineering practice, and to provide a roadmap for future
research funding. SIGSOFT obtained a grant from the U.S. National
Science Foundation to partially fund the activities of the group. A new
section of the SIGSOFT web site is dedicated to documenting and
publicizing the project. Two draft reports have appeared in SEN, one has
been submitted for publication in ACM TOSEM, and two more are in
preparation for submission to ACM TOSEM.

