
+++
title = "2004-2005 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2004 - June 2005

## Submitted by: Alexander Wolf, SIGSOFT Immediate Past Chair

SIGSOFT has had a strong year, the last of the current administration.
Conference attendance rates appear to be continuing to pick up and we
are continuing to see the financial benefits of moving the bulk of our
newsletter, Software Engineering Notes (SEN), on line. We have begun to
move our sponsored conferences to CD-only proceedings. This has a
significant financial impact, as it means that our distribution of
proceedings to members (promised as two issues of SEN) can be done
through the Digital Library rather than the postal system.

We held an election this year, the first to be conducted electronically.
The voter turn out was not significantly increased, although the expense
of conducting the election was significantly reduced. The nominating
committee had no trouble finding willing and able candidates, and an
extremely energetic new executive committee has been put in place. Of
the seven elected executive committee members, two are female and four
are living and working in Europe.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to Prof. Richard Taylor of the University of California,
Irvine. We awarded the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award jointly to
Prof. Jeff Kramer and Prof. Jeff Magee of Imperial College London. The
awards were announced at ICSE 2005 in St. Louis. Kramer and Magee will
receive their award at ESEC/FSE 2005 in September, and will give a
keynote address. We also continued to award the Most Influential Paper
from ICSE N-10, which this year went to an ICSE \'95 paper authored by
Michael Jackson and Pamela Zave. Finally, the program committees of
SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences named up to 10% of their papers as
Distinguished Papers. Together with SIGBED we have begun the process of
creating a memorial award from Dr. Frank Anger, formerly of the US
National Science Foundation (NSF), who was killed in a car accident in
July 2004. The award will provide annual funding for one student from
each community to attend the primary conference of the other community
in an effort to celebrate Dr. Anger\'s commitment to interdisciplinary
research. A travel grant proposal to partially support the award was
submitted to the NSF through the ACM with the chair of SIGBED, Janos
Sztipanovits, and SIGSOFT, Alexander Wolf, as co-principal
investigators.

Our major meetings continue to be strong. We now sponsor or co-sponsor
approximately 17 events, and are in cooperation with approximately 20
others. ICSE 2005, co-sponsored with the IEEE Computer Society, was a
technical success and well attended, having over 1000 participants. ICSE
2006 will be held in Shanghai, which has presented a number of new
challenges for SIGSOFT and for SIG Services. ICSE 2007 will be held in
Minneapolis and ICSE 2008 in Leipzig. Planning has begun for ICSE 2009.
The ICSE steering committee, which is responsible for managing the
conference series, is chaired by SIGSOFT executive committee member
David Rosenblum.

We began a project to document the PhD dissertations in software
engineering by inviting people (members and non-members alike) to submit
titles, abstracts, and URLs for capture on the SIGSOFT web site.

SIGSOFT continues to lead the Impact Project, whose goals are to conduct
a scholarly assessment of the impact of software engineering research on
software engineering practice, and to provide a roadmap for future
research funding. SIGSOFT obtained a grant from the U.S. National
Science Foundation to partially fund the activities of the group. A
section of the SIGSOFT web site is dedicated to documenting and
publicizing the project. Two reports have been submitted for publication
in ACM TOSEM, with both expected to appear in 2005.

