
+++
title = "2006-2007 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2005 - June 2006

## Submitted by: William G. Griswold, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT has had an excellent year. A new set of officers took their
positions, with a large number of new faces coming on board. Due to the
growing number of elected positions being held by Europeans, our
European Liaison position was retired, and we instituted a South Asia
Liaison, reassigning our Asia Liaison to focus on North Asia.

Due to the large growth in the number of conferences that we (co)sponsor
and cooperate with, we also reassigned responsibility for in-cooperation
conferences from our Vice Chair to the Secretary/Treasurer. We have also
more clearly delineated the roles of our at-large members, namely
awards, education, and digital library issues.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to Prof. Carlo Ghezzi of Politecnico di Milano. We awarded
the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award to David Harel of The
Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel. The awards were announced at
ICSE 2006 in Shanghai, with the presentation to Prof. Ghezzi taking
place at the conference. Dr. Harel will receive his award at SIGSOFT
2006 in November 2006, and will give a keynote address. We made a number
of ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper awards across our sponsored
conferences. We did not award the Most Influential Paper from ICSE N-10
this year, as the ICSE 2006 PC chose not to award a paper. We made
several dozen awards to students for travel support to SIGSOFT-sponsored
conferences, under our CAPS (Conference Attendance Program for
Students). Finally, we are proud to have ACM\'s approval for the Frank
Anger Memorial Award, a joint SIGSOFT-SIGBED student travel award in
honor of the memory of Frank Anger, who served the community for many
years through his work as a program director at NSF.

Our major conferences continue to be strong - in attendance, sound
finances, and intellectual vibrancy. ESEC/FSE 2005 was held in Lisbon,
Portugal, under the leadership team of Michel Wermelinger (general
chair) and Harald Gall (program chair). ICSE 2006 was held in Shanghai,
China, under the leadership team of Leon Osterweil (general chair), and
Mary Lou Soffa and Dieter Rombach (program co-chairs). Holding ICSE - a
multi-track event on the scale of a thousand participants - in a country
with an emerging economy and high-tech industry was a major
accomplishment. The event was critical to helping the global community
appreciate the monumental changes that are taking place in China and
throughout Asia.

SIGSOFT 2006 will be in Portland, Oregon, with Michal Young as general
chair and Prem Devanbu as program chair. FSE 2007 will be joint with the
European Software Engineering Conference (ESEC) in Dubrovnik, Croatia,
in September 2007. Antonia Bertolino is the program chair, and Ivica
Crnkovic is the general chair. SIGSOFT 2008 is planned to be held in
Atlanta, Georgia in November of that year, with Mary Jean Harrold as
General Chair and Gail Murphy as program Chair. ICSE 2007 will be in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, with John Knight as general chair, and Wolfgang
Emmerich and Gregg Rothermel as program co-chairs. ICSE 2008 will be in
Leipzig, Germany, with Wilhelm Sch√§fer as general chair, and Matthew
Dwyer and Volker Gruhn as program co-chairs. ICSE 2009 is planned for
Vancouver BC, Canada, with Stephen Fickas as General Chair and Paola
Inverardi and Joanne Atlee as program co-chairs.

We continue to experiment with the affordances of digital publishing.
For the second year, ICSE has provided a paper proceedings only as an
option. This year, the proceedings instead was made available on a USB
memory stick, financed by a corporate donation to the conference. FSE
2006 will take a digital publication approach as well. Based on feedback
from our membership at our \"Town Meeting\" at ICSE 2006, the FSE
2006\'s proceedings will be available in the ACM Digital Library prior
to the conference. This will permit attendees to download and print
papers in advance of the conference, providing both the cost benefits of
digital publication and the affordances of paper. In a parallel effort,
we are now using e-mail to encourage our authors to link their web sites
to their articles in the ACM Digital Library.

Will Tracz has continued to make our newsletter, SEN, stronger and
better as we move into the digital era. We have moved away from mailing
out two proceedings per year. Rather than move totally online, SEN still
prints and mails \"tip of the iceberg\" content such as conference
abstracts and key articles and columns (such as RISKS). This has
dramatically reduced costs, but provides the essential value that SEN
has always provided - bringing key information to our membership\'s
attention.

An important initiative that SIGSOFT has engaged in is the SIGSOFT
Software Engineering Dissertation Catalog, whose goals are to create a
record of the research activity of our youngest researchers and ease
access to this content for computer scientists and historians, which is
normally dispersed in obscure locales on the internet. Begun by our past
Chair Alex Wolf, this year we undertook an aggressive e-mail
solicitation with the help of Tao Xie\'s family tree of academic
software engineering research. This has resulted in essentially doubling
the content of our catalog, as well as heightening the community\'s
awareness of its presence.

In the coming year we will be focusing on membership, the digital
library as before, revising our bylaws, and awards. Our membership has
been trending slowly lower, as in many SIGs, but we\'re going to be
making the case to our broader community that membership brings value
that is far in excess of the cost of membership. In particular, we\'ll
be looking at international membership, student membership, and the
membership of our conference attendees. Our bylaws are out of date, and
although they are not doing us harm, they are not serving us well,
either. We have asked David Notkin, a past SIGSOFT chair, to lead an
effort to modernize our bylaws. Many of the remarkable accomplishments
of our community are under-recognized. This coming year we will be
putting the Anger Award in to implementation, while also looking to add
a dissertation award and perhaps an educator\'s award.

