
+++
title = "2006-2007 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2006 - June 2007

## Submitted by: William G. Griswold, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT had an excellent year, maintaining the success of its
conferences while continuing to reach out to the community in many
dimensions.

Due to the growing number of elected positions being held by Europeans,
our European Liaison position was retired, and we instituted a South
Asia Liaison, reassigning our Asia Liaison to focus on North Asia. Due
to the large growth in the number of conferences that we (co)sponsor and
cooperate with, we also reassigned responsibility for in-cooperation
conferences from our Vice Chair to the Secretary/Treasurer. We have also
more clearly delineated the roles of our at-large members, namely
awards, education, and digital library issues.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to Prof. David Notkin of the University of Washington. We
awarded the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award to Elaine Weyuker of
ATT Labs - Research. The awards were presented to the recipients at ICSE
2007 in Minneapolis. Dr. Weyuker will give a keynote address at the
upcoming SIGSOFT-sponsored ESEC/FSE\'07 conference in Dubrovnik. We made
a number of ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper awards across our sponsored
conferences. We made 84 awards to students for travel support to
SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences, under our CAPS (Conference Attendance
Program for Students). This coming year we will again increase funding,
but also increase the size of the awards and make fewer of them,
focusing on first-time attendees and those in need. The joint
SIGSOFT-SIGBED Frank Anger student travel award saw its first honorees
from the SIGBED community this year, and SIGSOFT is in the process of
choosing their first awardee at this time. Finally, we are proud to have
ACM\'s approval for the SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award, which will recognize
SIGSOFT conference papers of 10 years age or more for their exceptional
impact on the community.

Our major conferences continue to be strong - in attendance, sound
finances, and intellectual vibrancy. SIGOSFT 2006 was held in Portland,
Oregon, with Michal Young as general chair and Prem Devanbu as program
chair. ICSE 2007 was held in Minneapolis, MN, under the leadership team
of John Knight (general chair), and Gregg Rothermel and Wolfgang
Emmerich (program co-chairs). Both events featured SIGSOFT\'s new \"Town
Hall Meeting\" format whereby we open the floor to an open discussion on
the issues of the day, while those present relax with refreshments.

FSE 2007 will be joint with the European Software Engineering Conference
(ESEC) in Dubrovnik, Croatia, this September. Antonia Bertolino is the
program chair, and Ivica Crnkovic is the general chair. SIGSOFT 2008
will be held in Atlanta, Georgia in November of that year, with Mary
Jean Harrold as General Chair and Gail Murphy as program Chair. ICSE
2008 will be in Leipzig, Germany, with Wilhelm Sch√§fer as general chair,
and Matthew Dwyer and Volker Gruhn as program co-chairs. ICSE 2009 will
be held in Vancouver BC, Canada, with Stephen Fickas as General Chair
and Paola Inverardi and Joanne Atlee as program co-chairs.

We continue to experiment with the affordances of digital publishing.
For the third year, ICSE has provided paper proceedings only as an
option. This year, as last, the proceedings were made available on a USB
memory stick, financed by a corporate donation to the conference. FSE
2006 took a digital publication approach as well. Based on feedback from
our membership at our Town Meetings, FSE 2007\'s proceedings will be
available in the ACM Digital Library prior to the conference. This will
permit attendees to download and print papers in advance of the
conference, providing both the cost benefits of digital publication and
the affordances of paper. We continue to use e-mail to encourage our
authors to link their web sites to their articles in the ACM Digital
Library, and are educating our membership about the benefits of the
Digital Library and the Portal.

Will Tracz has continued to make our newsletter, SEN, stronger and
better as we move into the digital era. Because the SEN is produced in
two versions, online and a print \"tip of the iceberg\" summary
(including RISKS), production is complicated and time consuming. To this
end, Will will be working with a group of undergraduates at the
Rochester Institute of Technology to develop a content management system
that can handle the unique work flow to produce these two documents.

In the coming year we will be focusing on membership, the digital
library as before, revising our bylaws, and awards. Our membership has
been trending slowly lower, as in many SIGs, but we\'re going to be
making the case to our broader community that membership brings value
that is far in excess of the cost of membership. In particularly, we\'ll
be looking at international membership and student membership. Our
bylaws are out of date, and although they are not doing us harm, they
are not serving us well, either. David Notkin has produced a modernized
version of the bylaws, and we will be presenting them to the ACM shortly
after the proposed new rules governing bylaws revisions are themselves
approved. Many of the remarkable accomplishments of our community are
under-recognized. This coming year we will be putting the Impact Paper
award into implementation, while also looking to add a dissertation
award and perhaps an educator\'s award.

