
+++
title = "2007-2008 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2007 - June 2008

## Submitted by: William G. Griswold, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT had an excellent year, maintaining the success of its
conferences while continuing to reach out to the community in many
dimensions.

Our major conferences continue to be strong - in attendance, sound
finances, and intellectual vibrancy. FSE 2007 was joint with the
European Software Engineering Conference (ESEC) in Dubrovnik, Croatia
last September, with Antonia Bertolino as the program chair and Ivica
Crnkovic as the general chair. ICSE 2008 was held in Leipzig, Germany,
with Wilhelm Sch√§fer as general chair, and Matthew Dwyer and Volker
Gruhn as program co-chairs. Both events featured SIGSOFT\'s successful
\"Town Hall Meeting\" format whereby we open the floor to an open
discussion on the issues of the day, while those present relax with
refreshments. At ICSE 2008, we experimented with a lunch format whereby
SIGSOFT reserved a separate room. This boosted attendance, but it seems
that many who attended were unaware of the special event.

SIGSOFT 2008 will be held in Atlanta, Georgia in November of that year,
with Mary Jean Harrold as General Chair and Gail Murphy as Program
Chair. FSE 2009 will be held jointly with ESEC 2009 (the European
Software Engineering Conference) in Amsterdam Netherlands, held in late
August. Hans van Vliet will be the General Chair and Valerie Issarny the
Program Chair. ICSE 2009 will be held in Vancouver BC, Canada, with
Stephen Fickas as General Chair and Paola Inverardi and Joanne Atlee as
Program Chairs. ICSE 2010 will be held in Cape Town, South Africa. Jeff
Kramer and Judith Bishop are the General Chairs, with Premukar Devanbu
and Sebastian Uchitel are the Program Chairs.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to John Knight of the University of Virginia. We awarded
the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award to Axel van Lamsweerde of the
Universite Catholique de Louvain, Belgium. The awards were presented to
the recipients at ICSE 2008 in Leipzig. Dr. Lamsweerde will also give a
keynote address at the upcoming SIGSOFT 2008 in Atlanta. We made a
number of ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper awards across our many
sponsored conferences. We made 49 awards to students for travel support
to SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences, under our CAPS (Conference Attendance
Program for Students), and our budget trended slightly upwards above
\$31,000. This coming year we will increase funding to \$40,000,
increasing the size of the awards to reflect increasing travel costs, as
well as focusing on first-time attendees and those in need. The joint
SIGSOFT-SIGBED Frank Anger student travel award saw its first two rounds
of SIGSOFT honorees this year, the most recent being the Hasso Plattner
Institute for Software Systems Engineering (HPI) at the University of
Potsdam. Earlier we made awards to Stefan Henkler at the University of
Paderborn, and Chungyang Ye, at Hong Kong University of Science and
Technology. Finally, we are in the process of making selections for the
2008 SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award, which recognizes SIGSOFT conference
papers of 10 years age or more for their exceptional impact on the
community. ACM Fellow Carlo Ghezzi is heading up the 2008 committee, and
ACM Fellow Richard Adrion is heading up the retrospective Impact Award
committee, which is looking far beyond 10 years to the early days of
SIGSOFT.

SIGSOFT has now moved solidly over to digital publishing. For the second
year the ICSE proceedings were made available on a USB memory stick,
financed by a corporate donation to the conference. ESEC/FSE 2007 took a
digital publication approach as well. Based on feedback from our
membership at our Town Meetings, FSE 2008\'s proceedings will be
available in the ACM Digital Library prior to the conference. This will
permit attendees to download and print papers in advance of the
conference, providing both the cost benefits of digital publication and
the affordances of paper. We continue to use e-mail to encourage our
authors to link their web sites to their articles in the ACM Digital
Library, and are educating our membership about the benefits of the
Digital Library and the Portal.

Will Tracz has continued to make our newsletter, SEN, stronger and
better as we move into the digital era. Because the SEN is produced in
two versions, online and a print \"tip of the iceberg\" summary
(including RISKS), production is complicated and time consuming. To this
end, Will has been working with a group of undergraduates at the
Rochester Institute of Technology to develop a content management system
that can handle the unique work flow to produce these two documents.

A new activity for SIGSOFT is nominating top SIGSOFT-sponsored
conference papers to the \"new\" CACM. CACM has just moved to a new
format that seeks to emulate the highly respected Science magazine. The
new CACM contains a Research Highlights section that is presenting the
most compelling results from recent ACM conference papers to CACM\'s
wide audience. CACM has invited SIGSOFT (and many other SIGs) to
nominate such papers for consideration by the Research Highlights
editorial board. SIGSOFT is now forming twice-yearly ad hoc committees
to identify nominees.

In the coming year we will be focusing on membership, the digital
library as before, revising our bylaws, and awards. One plan is to hold
a membership drive by having existing members recruit colleagues. Our
bylaws are going through a two-stage revision, with one part being
pre-approved, and the remainder going to a member vote next year. Many
of the remarkable accomplishments of our community are under-recognized,
so we will be looking to add a dissertation award and an educator\'s
award to our awards portfolio.

Finally, SIGSOFT is working to help our conferences more, especially as
we see conference costs rising. In the coming year we will be showing
more flexibility in budgeting for those sponsored conferences that
minimize the risks of a financial loss, while at the same time striving
to meet the goals of SIGSOFT, such as holding down student registration
fees.

