
+++
title = "2008-2009 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2008 - June 2009

## Submitted by: Alexander Wolf, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT had an excellent year, maintaining the success of its
conferences during difficult economic times, while continuing to reach
out to the community in many dimensions.

Our major conferences continue to be strong - in attendance, sound
finances, and intellectual vibrancy. FSE 2008 was held in Atlanta,
Georgia, USA in November, with Gail Murphy serving as Program Chair and
Mary Jean Harrold serving as General Chair. ICSE 2009 was held in
Vancouver, Canada, with Stephen Fickas as General Chair, and Paola
Inverardi and Joanne Atlee as Program co-Chairs. Both events featured
SIGSOFT\'s successful \"Town Hall Meeting\" format whereby we open the
floor to an open discussion on the issues of the day, while those
present relax with refreshments.

FSE 2009 will be held jointly with ESEC 2009 (the European Software
Engineering Conference) in Amsterdam, Netherlands, held in late August.
Hans van Vliet will be the General Chair and Valerie Issarny the Program
Chair. FSE 2010 will be held in Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA, with Catalin
Roman as General Chair and Andre van der Hoek as Program Chair. ICSE
2010 will be held in Cape Town, South Africa. Jeff Kramer and Judith
Bishop are the General Chairs, with Premukar Devanbu and Sebastian
Uchitel as the Program Chairs. ICSE 2011 will be held in Honolulu,
Hawaii, USA, with Richard Taylor as General Chair, and Harald Gall and
Nenad Medvidovic as Program co-Chairs.

On the awards front, we continued to make our annual service and
research awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award
was presented to Stuart Zweben of The University of Ohio. We awarded the
ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award to Richard Taylor of UC Irvine.
The awards were presented to the recipients at ICSE 2009 in Vancouver.
Dr. Taylor will also give a keynote address at the upcoming ESEC/FSE
2009 in Amsterdam. We made a number of ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper
awards across our many sponsored conferences.

In mid-2008 ACM approved the new SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award to recognize
papers published in SIGSOFT conferences at least 10 years earlier that
have had exceptional impact on research or practice. Last year we made
our first round of awards. The 2008 SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award
committee, led by ACM Fellow Carlo Ghezzi, recognized \"A Design
Framework for Internet-Scale Event Observation and Notification\" from
the 5th ESEC/FSE (1997), co-authored by Alex Wolf and David Rosenblum.
ACM Fellow Richard Adrion headed up the 2008 Retrospective Impact Award
committee, which is looking far beyond 10 years to the early days of
SIGSOFT in search of up to 23 early high-impact papers over the next
five years. His committee recognized these papers:

-   Harel, D., Lachover, H., Naamad, A., Pnueli, A., Politi, M.,
    Sherman, R., and Shtul-Trauring, A. STATEMATE: a working environment
    for the development of complex reactive systems. In Proceedings of
    the 10th International Conference on Software Engineering
    (Singapore, April 11 - 15, 1988).
-   Ungar, D. Generation Scavenging: A non-disruptive high performance
    storage reclamation algorithm. SIGPLAN Not. 19, 5 \-- ACM
    SIGSOFT/SIGPLAN software engineering symposium on Practical software
    development environments, (May. 1984), 157-167.
-   Parnas, D. L., Clements, P. C., and Weiss, D. M. The modular
    structure of complex systems. In Proceedings of the 7th
    International Conference on Software Engineering (Orlando, Florida,
    United States, March 26 - 29, 1984).
-   Weiser, M. Program slicing. In Proceedings of the 5th International
    Conference on Software Engineering (San Diego, California, United
    States, March 09 - 12, 1981).
-   Liskov, B., Snyder, A., Atkinson, R., and Schaffert, C. Abstraction
    mechanisms in CLU. In Proceedings of An ACM Conference on Language
    Design For Reliable Software (Raleigh, North Carolina, March 28 -
    30, 1977). D. B. Wortman, Ed., 140.
-   We continue to expand our conference attendance awards, both in
    budget and scope. The joint SIGSOFT-SIGBED Frank Anger student
    travel award\'s most recent award from the SIGSOFT side went to
    Basil Becker of the Hasso Plattner Institute for Software Systems
    Engineering (HPI) at the University of Potsdam. We made dozens of
    awards to students for travel support to SIGSOFT-sponsored
    conferences, under our CAPS (Conference Attendance Program for
    Students), for which our budget approached \$40,000, increasing the
    size of the awards to reflect increasing travel costs, as well as
    focusing on first-time attendees, those in need. This year we
    expanded CAPS to include undergraduates as well. This year we also
    extended our conference attendance programs to childcare at
    conferences. At FSE we contracted with KiddieCorp to provide onsite
    care, but in general we provide for the travel of a caregiver to
    accompany the conference attendee and his/her child. This program is
    open to all attendees.

New for this year was our SIGSOFT Influential Educator Award. The 2009
award was made to Laurie Williams of North Carolina State University for
her work on the use of pair programming in programming pedagogy, among
other contributions. We also made a one-time posthumous award to A. Nico
Habermann for his contributions in graduating so many influential Ph.D.
students, including many who have gone on to continue his legacy as an
inspiring Ph.D. advisor.

As part of our international outreach efforts, we co-supported a special
session at the annual India Software Engineering Conference. This
session features presentations of ICSE and FSE from the previous year
that won ACM Distinguished Paper Awards. The authors of the winning
papers are flown to India to re-present their papers. This has been
highly successful, being lauded by both the ISEC organizers as well as
the ICSE and FSE authors who have flown to the conference. We plan to
continue supporting this effort in the future.

Will Tracz has continued to make our newsletter, SEN, stronger and
better as we move into the digital era. Because the SEN is produced in
two versions, online and a print \"tip of the iceberg\" summary
(including RISKS), production is complicated and time consuming. To this
end, Will has been working with a group of undergraduates at the
Rochester Institute of Technology to develop a content management system
that can handle the unique work flow to produce these two documents. The
system is expected to be ready in the coming year.

SIGSOFT adopted revised updated bylaws this year. The most significant
changes are that (a) the term of the elected executive committee has
been increased from two to three years, and (b) the number of at-large
members has been increased by one and the Secretary/Treasurer position
is now appointed from the at-large members.

SIGSOFT is working to help our conferences more, especially as we see
conference costs rising. In the coming year we will be showing more
flexibility in budgeting for those sponsored conferences that minimize
the risks of a financial loss, while at the same time striving to meet
the goals of SIGSOFT, such as holding down student registration fees.
Our plan is to help our sponsored conferences subsidizing student
registration fees from our budget, rather than the traditional method of
increasing registration fees for regular registrants, which has proven
unsustainable.

SIGSOFT has a new incoming committee this year, chaired by David
Rosenblum. For the coming year, among other initiatives, he has stated a
specific interest in reaching out to practitioners, and he plans to
appoint a practitioner liaison as well as a practitioner advisory board,
to be chaired by the new liaison. Another goal is to institute a
dissertation award to recognize the great research of our graduating
PhDs.

