
+++
title = "2009-2010 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2009 - June 2010

## Submitted by: David Rosenblum, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT had another excellent year, maintaining the technical excellence
and financial health of its conferences despite increasingly difficult
economic times, while continuing to reach out to the community, with
increased attention given this year to the practitioner community.

The numerous conferences and workshops we sponsor and co-sponsor
continue to be strong, both intellectually and financially. Our flagship
conference, ESEC/FSE 2009, was held in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, with
Hans van Vliet serving as General Chair and Valerie Issarny serving as
Program Chair. Our largest conference, ICSE 2010 (co-sponsored with the
IEEE Computer Society), was held in Cape Town, South Africa, with Judith
Bishop and Jeff Kramer as General Co-Chairs, and Prem Devanbu and
Sebastian Uchitel as Program Co-Chairs. The main social event at ICSE
was the Awards Banquet, where the SIGSOFT Chair presented several
important SIGSOFT awards and recognised the new ACM Distinguished
Members and Fellows from the software engineering community.

FSE 2010 will be held in Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA, with Catalin Roman
as General Chair and Andre van der Hoek as Program Chair, and ESEC/FSE
2011 will be held in Szeged, Hungary, with Tibor Gyimothy as General
Chair and Andreas Zeller as Program Chair. Given the increasing number
of submissions to FSE and the consequent increased workload for the
Program Chair, for FSE 2012 we decided to name two Program Co-Chairs,
with Tevfik Bultan and Martin Robillard filling these roles; a General
Chair for FSE 2012 is expected to be named soon. ICSE 2011 will be held
in Honolulu, Hawai\'i, USA, with Richard Taylor as General Chair, and
with Harald Gall and Nenad Medvidovic as Program Co-Chairs. Planning is
underway as well for ICSE 2012, which will be held in Zurich,
Switzerland, with Martin Glinz serving as General Chair, and with Gail
Murphy and Mauro Pezze as Program Co-Chairs.

The problems and topics addressed in the papers presented at SIGSOFT
meetings remain tremendously varied and timely, with papers on testing
and analysis being predominant. This past year saw several papers on new
and emerging topics, including several papers presenting important
insights that can be gleaned through mining software repositories (such
as source code and defect databases), increasing numbers of papers on
probabilistic reasoning, and three papers at ICSE 2010 on legal and
regulatory issues in software engineering.

The biggest challenge facing SIGSOFT and its membership in the coming
years is conference budgeting. Operating and venue costs for conferences
are rising, while the funds prospective attendees have for travel to
conferences are decreasing. We recently began reducing the contingencies
required of our more mature conferences, but more needs to be done.
Maintaining financial viability involves an intricate series of
tradeoffs among a number of goals that are not always compatible with
each other, including, among other things, the desire to keep student
registration fees low, to maintain the SIG services fee at an
appropriate level to support the provisioning of services by ACM, and to
allow SIGSOFT members to enjoy the benefit of our increasing Digital
Library revenue.

Among the awards presented at the ICSE 2010 Awards Banquet were our
annual service, research and education awards. This year\'s ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Service Award was presented to Mary Lou Soffa of The
University of Virginia. The ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award was
presented to a group of recipients this year, the so-called \"Gang of
Four\" responsible for the Design Patterns movement\--Erich Gamma of
IBM, Richard Helm of BCG, Ralph Johnson of the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, and (posthumously) John Vlissides. As in past years,
the awardees will be provided the opportunity to deliver a keynote
address at FSE 2010, with Ralph Johnson expected to make the
presentation. And now in its second year, the ACM SIGSOFT Influential
Educator Award was presented to Leon Osterweil of the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst, who at the Awards Banquet was greeted by the
sight of a few dozen of his academic \"descendants\" standing in his
honour. We also continued to present a number of ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Awards at our sponsored meetings.

For the second year we presented the SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award to
recognize a paper published in a SIGSOFT conference at least 10 years
earlier that has had exceptional impact on research or practice. The
2009 SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award committee, led by John Knight, selected
the paper \"Yesterday My Program Worked. Today It Does Not. Why?\" by
Andreas Zeller, from the Proceedings of ESEC/FSE 1999. The Award was
presented at ESEC/FSE 2009 to Andreas, who gave a keynote presentation
reflecting on the origins and impact of his paper. We also presented
Retrospective Impact Paper Awards to papers from the first 23 years of
SIGSOFT\'s history of conference sponsorship. For the 2009 Retrospective
Impact Paper Awards, ACM Fellow Richard Adrion once again chaired the
selection committee, which selected the following five papers:

McCabe, T.J. \'A Complexity Measure.\' In Proc. Second International
Conference on Software Engineering (San Francisco, California, USA,
13-15 October 1976).

Rapps, S., and Weyuker, E.J. \'Data Flow Analysis Techniques for Test
Data Selection.\' In Proc. Sixth International Conference on Software
Engineering (Tokyo, Japan, 13-16 September 1982).

Reiss, S.P.\'PECAN: Program Development Systems That Support Multiple
Views.\' In Proc. Seventh International Conference on Software
Engineering (Orlando, Florida, USA, 26-29 March 1984).

Boehm, B.W.\'A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement.\'
In Proc. International Workshop on the Software Process and Software
Environments (Coto de Caza, Trabuco Canyon, California, USA, 27-29 March
1985).

Royce, W.W. \'Managing the Development of Large Software Systems:
Concepts and Techniques.\' In Proc. Ninth International Conference on
Software Engineering (Monterey, California, USA, 30 March-2 April 1987).

As in past years, we made dozens of awards totaling around \$50,000 to
support travel by students to SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences, under our
CAPS Conference Attendance Program for Students (CAPS). We also
continued to make CAPS awards to undergraduates and provided awards for
childcare support at conferences. Regrettably we were unable to identify
a suitable recipient this year from the SIGSOFT community for the
SIGBED/SIGSOFT Frank Anger Memorial Award, and so we are developing
plans to attract more nominees. One incentive we plan to introduce is to
identify and assign a host to the awardee at the awardee\'s chosen
conference. This host will be a senior member of the SIGBED community
who will welcome the awardee to the conference, introduce him or her to
other attendees, and generally try to integrate the awardee into the
conference activities. We have suggested to our colleagues in SIGBED
that they follow a similar practice for the awardees they send to
SIGSOFT conferences.

This past year Will Tracz continued his outstanding service as editor of
our newsletter, Software Engineering Notes (SEN). To maintain and
increase SEN and SIGSOFT\'s relevance to the community, Will initiated
plans for the dissemination of content through a blog, with Eric Bodden
volunteering to manage the blog.

This year a new SIGSOFT Executive Committee (EC) took office, and the
new Chair decided to make a more formal delegation of responsibilities
for specific activity areas to individual EC members. In accordance with
the SIGSOFT Bylaws, Laura Dillon, who was re-elected as Member At Large,
was appointed as the new Secretary/Treasurer. Two new Members At Large,
Gail Murphy and Joanne Atlee, were assigned responsibility for Awards
and Educational Initiatives, respectively. Almost immediately after
taking office, Bashar Nuseibeh, the fourth elected Member At Large,
decided to resign his position in order to assume the heavy
responsibilities of Editor-in-Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Software
Engineering. Bashar\'s departure was a great loss to the EC but also
provided an opportunity to appoint a replacement who could serve the
role of Practitioner Liaison. Thus, in accordance with the SIGSOFT
Bylaws and ACM Policies on SIG governance, Mark Grechanik of Accenture
was appointed as the replacement Member At Large. Mark has begun
developing initiatives to increase practitioner participation in
SIGSOFT\'s activities, including the creation of discussion groups on
two social network sites, Linkedin and Facebook. He also was also
instrumental in facilitating significant industrial involvement in a
Workshop on the Future of Software Engineering Research to be held at
FSE 2010, which helped dramatically increase industrial financial
support for the conference.

In addition to the elected members of the EC, SIGSOFT continues to be
supported by a cadre of unelected volunteers. Nels Beckman completed
several years of dedicated service as our Information Director and
turned the reins over in May 2010 to Greg Cooper. Roshanak Roshandel
continued her excellent service as our CAPS Coordinator. And Tao Xie
continues his role as History Liaison. As a result of the amazing energy
and passion Tao has for historical initiatives, he was recently invited
onto the ACM History Committee. This year Tao put together a SIGSOFT
Chronology, modeled on SIGPLAN\'s successful Chronology, to document in
as much detail and with as much completeness as possible the full
history of SIGSOFT, including its officers, conferences and awardees,
and its ACM Fellows and Distinguished Members and Turing Award winners.
More recently Tao organised a SIGSOFT Community Directory that will soon
be made public, allowing people to keep track of the doings of members
of the SIGSOFT community. Finally, Tao completed the drafting of a
proposal for a SIGSOFT Outstanding Dissertation Award, for which we hope
to obtain approval from the ACM Awards committee in the coming year.

As a final note, SIGSOFT enthusiastically supported the successful
re-appointment of David Notkin as Editor-in-Chief of the ACM
Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology.

