
+++
title = "2010-2011 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2010 - June 2011

## Submitted by: David Rosenblum, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT had another excellent year, both technically and financially in
2010-11. This report provides a summary of key SIGSOFT activities over
the past year.

AWARDS THAT WERE GIVEN OUT

SIGSOFT has a large awards program that recognises the many achievements
of the software engineering community.

Our prestigious service, research and education awards were presented
again this year at ICSE 2011 in Hawaii. The ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished
Service Award was presented to Jeff Kramer, in recognition of his many
years of service to ICSE (including General Co-Chair of ICSE 2010,
Program Co-Chair of ICSE 1999, and member and chair of the ICSE Steering
Committee), as well as his service to the leading archival journals in
software engineering (including Editor-in-Chief of IEEE Transactions on
Software Engineering and Associate Editor of ACM Transactions on
Software Engineering and Methodology). The ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding
Research Award was presented to Mary Shaw and David Garlan for their
work on the development and promotion of software architecture. As is
customary for this award, Mary and David will have the opportunity to
deliver a keynote address about their work at ESEC/FSE 2011 in Hungary.
Finally, the ACM SIGSOFT Influential Educator Award was presented to Ian
Sommerville, who is the author of probably the most widely used general
textbook in software engineering (currently in its 9th edition) as well
as co-author of two texts on requirements engineering and the Director
of the Graduate Academy of the Scottish Informatics and Computer Science
Alliance.

At ICSE we also recognised new ACM Senior Members, ACM Distinguished
Members and ACM Fellows for 2010 from the SIGSOFT community. The new ACM
Senior Members are Jeffrey C. Carver (University of Alabama), Kevin
Daimi (University of Detroit Mercy), Glenn D. House, Sr. (2Is Inc.),
Chang Liu (Ohio University), Andrian Marcus (Wayne State University),
Sudarshan Murthy (Wipro Technologies), Martin P. Robillard (McGill
University), Joseph P. Skudlarek (Cypress Semiconductor Corp.), Colin
Smythe (Dunelm Services Limited) and Jayakanth Srinivasan (MIT). Linda
M. Northrop (SEI, Carnegie Mellon University) was recognised as a new
ACM Distinguished Engineer, while the new ACM Distinguished Scientists
are Donald D. Cowan (University of Waterloo), Gail C. Murphy (University
of British Columbia), Lori L. Pollock (University of Delaware), Walter
F. Tichy (Karlsruhe Institute of Technology). Finally, the new ACM
Fellows are Dieter Rombach (for contributions to empirical software
engineering research and its successful application to industrial
practice), David Rosenblum (for contributions to software testing and
distributed systems, and for service to the software engineering
community) and Andreas Zeller (for contributions to automated debugging,
and to mining software archives).

The SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award recognizes a paper published in a SIGSOFT
conference at least 10 years earlier that has had exceptional impact on
research or practice. The 2010 SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award committee, led
by David Notkin, selected the paper \"Bandera: Extracting Finite-State
Models from Java Source Code\" by James C. Corbett, Matthew B. Dwyer,
John Hatcliff, Shawn Laubach, Corina S. PÃsÃreanu, Robby, and Hongjun
Zheng, from the Proceedings of ICSE 2000. Accepting the award at FSE
2010 were Matt, John and Corina, who gave a keynote presentation
reflecting on the origins and impact of their paper.

We also presented Retrospective Impact Paper Awards to papers from the
first 23 years of SIGSOFT\'s history of conference sponsorship. Michal
Young chaired the selection committee, which selected the following four
papers:

Thomas Reps and Tim Teitelbaum. \"The Synthesizer Generator\". In Proc.
First ACM SIGSOFT/SIGPLAN Software Engineering Symposium on Practical
Software Development Environments (Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 23-25 April
1984).

Karl J. Ottenstein and Linda M. Ottenstein. \"The Program Dependence
Graph in a Software Development Environment\". In Proc. First ACM
SIGSOFT/SIGPLAN Software Engineering Symposium on Practical Software
Development Environments (Pittsburgh, PA, USA, 23-25 April 1984).

Robert Balzer. \"Tolerating Inconsistency\". In Proc. 13th International
Conference on Software Engineering (Austin, TX, USA, 13-17 May 1991).

David Lorge Parnas. \"Software Aging\". In Proc. 16th International
Software Engineering Conference (Sorrento, Italy, 16-21 May 1994).

And many of our sponsored meetings this year presented ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Awards to the authors of a select number of their
accepted papers.

SIGNIFICANT PAPERS ON NEW AREAS THAT WERE PUBLISHED IN PROCEEDINGS

The problems and topics addressed in the papers presented at SIGSOFT
meetings remain tremendously varied and timely. As in many other fields,
analysis of large data sets is seeing increased interest, with relevant
data sets in software engineering being code repositories, version
histories, bug reports and fixes, and their interrelationships. Related
to this is the increasing use of statistical analysis and reasoning in
software engineering, including the application of data mining and
machine learning techniques. Testing and analysis remain the predominant
areas of research interest, with increasing numbers of papers exploring
approaches that combine static and dynamic analysis for fault detection,
fault localisation and even automated fault removal. And researchers are
also targeting more specialised forms of software such as Web-based
systems, software for multicore processors and software for clouds.

SIGNIFICANT PROGRAMS THAT PROVIDED A SPRINGBOARD FOR FURTHER TECHNICAL
EFFORTS

This year we established our first SIGSOFT chapter, the India Chapter of
SIGSOFT (ISOFT). This effort was spearheaded by our India Liaison,
Pankaj Jalote, and it will serve an important and active segment of the
global software engineering community.

Also this year, at ICSE 2011 we continued our support for two
established student programs, the Student Contest on Software
Engineering (SCORE) and the ACM Student Research Competition (SRC).
These programs serve to recognise significant achievements of student
members of the community and to provide stronger integration of students
with professional attendees at our sponsored meetings.

SIGSOFT will be a significant participant and supporter at ACM\'s Turing
celebrations in 2012. Our efforts for this are being led by Carlo
Ghezzi, Mark Grechanik and Will Tracz.

And this year we obtained approval for a new award, the ACM SIGSOFT
Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award, for outstanding PhD
dissertations in the field of software engineering. We expect to be
making our first award in the coming year.

INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS WHICH PROVIDE SERVICE TO SOME PART OF THE TECHNICAL
COMMUNITY

Through the efforts of our History Liaison, Tao Xie, SIGSOFT continues
to provide valuable resources to the community documenting the history
of our field and the people involved in that history. This year we
released the SIGSOFT Community Directory (SIGSOFT-CD,
http://historywiki.acm.org/sigs/SIGSOFT-CD), which provides an
alphabetical listing of ACM SIGSOFT officers, ACM officers from the
SIGSOFT community, General Chairs and Program Chairs of
SIGSOFT-sponsored meetings, recipients of SIGSOFT-related awards, and
other such contributors to our community.

We also continued our outreach to the community through our increasing
presence in social media outlets, and we have an entry in Wikipedia as
well. And there was a significant change this year to SEWORLD, the
SIGSOFT-hosted email list announcing calls for participation, faculty
and postdoc positions and other events to the software engineering
community: After nearly two decades of tireless management and
moderation of the list, Alexander Wolf decided to retire from his
SEWORLD responsibilities. The list is now being managed by Jim Vallino
and Mike Lutz at Rochester Institute of Technology.

As in past years, we made numerous awards to support travel by PhD
students to SIGSOFT-sponsored meetings, under our CAPS Conference
Attendance Program for Students (CAPS). We also continued to make CAPS
awards to undergraduates and provided awards for childcare support at
conferences. Regrettably we were unable once again to identify a
suitable recipient this year from the SIGSOFT community for the
SIGBED/SIGSOFT Frank Anger Memorial Award.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF KEY ISSUES FACING THE SIGSOFT MEMBERSHIP

Conference finance remains the key challenge for SIGSOFT, particularly
for the volunteers who organise its sponsored meetings, and ultimately
for its membership who pay the registration fees for those meetings.
Operating and venue costs for conferences continue to soar, but the
effects of the global economic downturn seem to have softened somewhat
this past year, since our meetings enjoyed an increase in contributions
from companies and other external supporters. In addition, meeting
organisers are finding ever more creative ways to keep costs and
registration fees down while still providing a rich and rewarding
experience for attendees, with the high quality programs, benefits,
amenities and activities they have come to expect.

