
+++
title = "2011-2012 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2011 - June 2012

## Submitted by: David Rosenblum, SIGSOFT Chair

SIGSOFT had another excellent year, both technically and financially in
2011 - 12. This report provides a summary of key SIGSOFT activities over
the past year.

AWARDS THAT WERE GIVEN OUT

SIGSOFT has a large awards program that recognizes the many achievements
of the software engineering community.

Our prestigious service, research and education awards were presented
again this year at ICSE 2012 in Zurich. The ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished
Service Award was presented to Alexander L. Wolf (Imperial College
London), in recognition of his extensive service to the software
engineering community through the many roles he has filled at ACM
(including SIGSOFT Vice Chair and Chair, SIG Governing Board Chair,
Software Systems Award Chair, ACM Secretary - Treasurer, and ACM Vice
President), as well as and his founding of the SEWORLD email list and
his service for the leading conferences and archival journals in
software engineering (including ICSE 2000 Program Co - Chair and
Associate Editor of ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and
Methodology and IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering). The ACM
SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award was presented to Lori A. Clarke
(University of Massachusetts at Amherst) for her research on many key
techniques for software testing and analysis, including pioneering work
on symbolic execution for test generation, data flow test adequacy
criteria, and data flow analysis for software validation. As is
customary for this award, Lori will have the opportunity to deliver a
keynote address about her work at FSE 2012 in Cary, North Carolina, USA,
in November 2012. Finally, the ACM SIGSOFT Influential Educator Award
was presented to two recipients this year. The first recipient was Mehdi
Jazayeri (University of Lugano), who is the author of several
influential textbooks in software engineering in programming languages,
and who designed a highly innovative project - based undergraduate
curriculum as Founding Dean of the Faculty of Informatics at the
University of Lugano. The second recipient was David Notkin (University
of Washington), who has an outstanding record of producing top - quality
PhDs, many of whom have become leaders in the software engineering
community.

At ICSE we also recognized new ACM Senior Members, ACM Distinguished
Members and ACM Fellows for 2010 from the SIGSOFT community. The new ACM
Senior Members are Frederico de Sousa Santos (IBM), David Mack Endres
(Schlumberger Information Solutions), Aaron Greenhouse (SureLogic,
Inc.), Naveed Ikram (International Islamic University, Islamabad), Chang
Liu (Ohio University), Andrian Marcus (Wayne State University), Viera
Krnanova Proulx (Northeastern University) and Tao Xie (North Carolina
State University). Richard E. Pattis (University of California, Irvine)
was recognized as a new ACM Distinguished Educator, while Cristina
Videira Lopes (University of California, Irvine), David F. Redmiles
(University of California, Irvine) and Laurie Ann Williams (North
Carolina State University) were recognized as new ACM Distinguished
Scientists. Finally, the new ACM Fellows are Thomas J. Ball ( Microsoft
Research) for contributions to software analysis and defect detection,
and Gerard J. Holzmann (NASA JPL) for contributions to software
verification by model checking.

The SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award recognizes a paper published in a SIGSOFT
conference at least 10 years earlier that has had exceptional impact on
research or practice. The 2011 SIGSOFT

Impact Paper Award committee, led by William G. Griswold, selected the
paper \"Interface Automata\" by Luca de Alfaro and Thomas A. Henzinger,
from the Proceedings of the Joint 8th European Software Engineering
Conference and 9th ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software
Engineering, which was held in Vienna, Austria on 10 - 14 September
2001. Thomas Henzinger accepted the award at ESEC/FSE 2011 and gave a
plenary presentation reflecting on the origins and impact of their
paper.

We also presented Retrospective Impact Paper Awards to papers from the
first 23 years of SIGSOFT\'s history of conference sponsorship. Michal
Young once again chaired the selection committee, which selected the
following four papers:

Dewayne E. Perry and Alexander L. Wolf. \"Foundations for the Study of
Software Architecture\". In ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes, vol.
17, no. 4, October 1992.

Thomas Reps, Susan Horowitz, Mooly Sagiv and Genevieve Rosay. \"Speeding
Up Slicing\". In Proc. Second ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on Foundations of
Software Engineering (New Orleans, December 1994).

David Garlan, Robert Allen and John Ockerbloom. \"Architectural Mismatch
or Why It\'s Hard to Build Systems Out of Existing Parts\". In Proc.
17th International Conference on Software Engineering (Seattle, April
1995).

Gail C. Murphy, David Notkin and Kevin Sullivan. \"Software Reflexion
Models: Bridging the Gap between Source and High - Level Models\". In
Proc. Third ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on Foundations of Software Engineering
(Washington, October 1995).

Many of our sponsored meetings this year also presented ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Awards to the authors of a select number of their
accepted papers.

Finally, this year we presented the SIGBED/SIGSOFT Frank Anger Memorial
Award to Aldeida Aleti of Swinburne University of Technology. The award
supports travel and attendance by a student member of SIGSOFT to a
conference sponsored by S IGBED, and Aldeida chose to attend ESWEEK
2011. SIGBED made corresponding awards to Mohamed A. Bamakhrama of
Leiden University and Miroslav Pajic of the University of Pennsylvania,
who chose to attend ICSE 2012.

SIGNIFICANT PAPERS ON NEW AREAS THAT WERE PUBLISHED IN PROCEEDINGS

The problems and topics addressed in the papers presented at SIGSOFT
meetings remain varied and timely. Software engineering researchers are
increasing their application of techniques borrowed from other areas of
computer science, particularly statistical analysis, data mining and
machine learning techniques. One particularly innovative paper applying
techniques from outside of software engineering is \"On the Naturalness
of Software\" by Abram Hindle, Earl T. Barr, Zhendong Su, Mark Gabel and
Premkumar Devanbu, which was presented at ICSE 2012. The paper applies
statistical techniques from natural language processing to analyze the
extent to which program code is \"natural\" (and thus repetitive and
predictable) and the extent to which its natural character can be used
to support software engineers (such as via automated code completion).
Testing and analysis remain the predominant areas of research interest,
and researchers are continuing to target more specialized forms of
software such as embedded systems, smartphone applications, and software
for clouds.

SIGNIFICANT PROGRAMS THAT PROVIDED A SPRINGBOARD FOR FURTHER TECHNICAL
EFFORTS

This year we launched a new SIGSOFT Award, the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding
Doctoral Dissertation Award, for outstanding PhD dissertations in the
field of software engineering. The effort in creating the award was led
by Tao Xie, who with Adam Porter is co - chairing the award selection
committee. We expect the first award to be presented at FSE 2012 in
November.

Also this year, at ICSE 2012 we continued our support for the ACM
Student Research Competition (SRC), which serves to recognize
significant achievements of student members of the community and to
provide stronger integration of students with professional attendees at
our sponsored meetings.

SIGSOFT also was a significant participant and supporter at ACM\'s
Turing celebrations in 2012. Our efforts for this were led by Carlo
Ghezzi, Mark Grechanik and Will Tracz.

INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS WHICH PROVIDE SERVICE TO SOME PART OF THE TECHNICAL
COMMUNITY

Through the efforts of our History Liaison, Tao Xie, SIGSOFT continues
to provide valuable resources to the community documenting the history
of our field and the people involved in that history.

We also continued our outreach to the community through our increasing
presence in social media outlets, and we have an entry in Wikipedia as
well. This year we also chose new hosts for the SEWORLD email list,
namely Andre van der Hoek and his group at the University of California,
Irvine.

As in past years, we made numerous awards to support travel by PhD
students to SIGSOFT - sponsored meetings, under our CAPS Conference
Attendance Program for Students (CAPS). We also continued to make CAPS
awards to undergraduates and provided awards for childcare support at
conferences.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF KEY ISSUES FACING THE SIGSOSFT MEMBERSHIP

As in previous years, conference finance remains the key challenge for
SIGSOFT, particularly for the volunteers who organize its sponsored
meetings, and ultimately for its membership who pay the registration
fees for those meetings. Operating and venue costs for conferences
continue to soa r, and meeting organizers are finding ever more creative
ways to keep costs and registration fees down while still providing a
rich and rewarding experience for attendees, with the high quality
programs, benefits, amenities and activities they have come to expect.

