
+++
title = "2012-2013 Annual Report"
+++

# SIGSOFT Annual Report

## July 2012 - June 2013

## Submitted by: Will Tracz, SIGSOFT Chair

ACM\'s Special Interest Group on Software Engineering (SIGSOFT) had
another excellent year, both technically and financially in 2012-13.
This report provides a summary of key SIGSOFT activities over the past
year.

AWARDS THAT WERE GIVEN OUT

SIGSOFT has a large awards program that recognizes the many achievements
of the software engineering community.

Our prestigious service, research and education awards were presented
again this year at the International Conference on Software Engineering
(ICSE) 2013 in San Francisco, CA. The recipients are as follows:

-   The ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Service Award was presented to Wilhelm
    Sch√§fer of the University of Paderborn, Germany for outstanding
    contributions to software engineering through service to SIGSOFT,
    software-engineering conferences, research foundations, and the
    general software-engineering community.
-   The ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding Research Award was presented
    posthumously to David Notkin from the University of Washington for
    contributions to research in software evolution: understanding,
    managing, and reducing the difficulties and cost of change in
    software systems.
-   The ACM SIGSOFT Influential Educator Award was presented to Tony
    Wasserman of the Carnegie Mellon University Silicon Valley for early
    contributions to software engineering curriculum development and
    extensive academic and professional education in software
    engineering methods, tools, and management.

At ICSE 2013 we also recognized new ACM Senior Members, ACM
Distinguished Members and ACM Fellows for 2012 from the SIGSOFT
community.

-   The new ACM Senior Members are Douglas Baldwin (SUNY Geneseo),
    Duncan Brown (Zedis Limited), Sutap Chatterjee (Verizon), Georgios
    Eleftherakis (Capital Markets), Jeff Gray (University of Alabama),
    Mark Grechanik (University of Illinois at Chicago), and Alessandro
    Orso (Georgia Institute of Technology).
-   Distinguished Members: Peter F. Sweeney and Peri Tarr (both from IBM
    Yorktown) were recognized as new ACM Distinguished Scientists.
-   The ACM Fellows for 2012 were Gregor Kiczales of the University of
    British Columbia for contributions to aspect-oriented programming
    language design and implementation and Walter Tichy of the
    University of Karlsruhe, Germany for contributions to software
    engineering and revision control systems.

The SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award recognizes a paper published in a SIGSOFT
conference at least 10 years earlier that has had exceptional impact on
research or practice. The 2012 SIGSOFT Impact Paper Award committee, led
by Peri Tarr, selected the paper: \"Dynamically Discovering Likely
Program Invariants to Support Program Evolution\" by Michael Ernst, Jake
Cockrell, Bill Griswold, and David Notkin, published in the proceedings
of ICSE\'99.

This is the final year for the SIGSOFT Retrospective Impact Paper Awards
that recognize papers from the first 23 years of SIGSOFT\'s history of
conference sponsorship. Lee Osterweil chaired the selection committee,
which selected the following five papers:

-   Walter F. Tichy, \"Design, Implementation, and Evaluation of a
    Revision Control System\", ICSE \'82: Proceedings of the 6th
    International Conference on Software Engineering. 1982
-   Debra J. Richardson, Stephanie Leif Aha, T. Owen O\'Malley,
    \"Specification-based Test Oracles for Reactive Systems\", ICSE
    \'92: Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Software
    Engineering, 1992
-   P. Borras, D. Clement, Th. Despeyroux, J. Incerpi, G. Kahn, B.
    Lang, V. Pascual, \"Centaur: the System\", PSDE 3: Proceedings of
    the 3rd ACM SIGSOFT/SIGPLAN Symposium on Practical Software
    Development Environments, 1989
-   J. Magee and J. Kramer, \"Dynamic Structure in Software
    Architectures\", FSE 4 Proceedings of the 4th ACM SIGSOFT Symposium
    on Foundations of Software Engineering, 1996
-   A.M. Zaremski and J. Wing, \"Specification Matching of Software
    Components\", FSE 3: Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on
    Foundations of Software Engineering, 1995

Many of our sponsored meetings this year also presented ACM SIGSOFT
Distinguished Paper Awards to the authors of a select number of their
accepted papers.

This year we launched a new SIGSOFT Award, the ACM SIGSOFT Outstanding
Doctoral Dissertation Award, for outstanding PhD dissertations in the
field of software engineering. The effort in creating the award was led
by Tao Xie, who with Adam Porter co-chaired the award selection
committee. The first award was presented at FSE 2012 in November to Mark
Gabel of the University of Texas at Dallas for his research on
automating the process of writing and maintaining high-quality computer
software. Gabel\'s research reverse-engineered the specifications from
software programs to ease the process of finding software bugs and
verifying correctness through automation. Gabel completed his Ph.D. at
the University of California, Davis, advised by Professor Zhendong Su.

Finally, this year the SIGBED/SIGSOFT Frank Anger Memorial Award was
awarded by SIGBED to Indranil Saha of UCLA for contributions to research
focused on bridging the gap between control and computer science. The
award supports travel and attendance by a student member of SIGSOFT to a
conference. Saha chose to attend ICSE 2013 where he was recognized at
the awards ceremony and he was introduced to SIGSOFT leaders at a
special breakfast.

SIGNIFICANT PAPERS ON NEW AREAS THAT WERE PUBLISHED IN PROCEEDINGS

The problems and topics addressed in the papers presented at SIGSOFT
meetings remain varied and timely. Software engineering researchers are
increasing their application of techniques borrowed from other areas of
computer science, particularly statistical analysis, data mining and
machine learning techniques. One particularly innovative area involved
industry studies from our 2012 Foundations in Software Engineering (FSE)
Conference: These papers received distinguished paper awards:

1.  \"Seeking the Ground Truth: A Retroactive Study on the Evolution and
    Migration of Software Libraries\" by Bradley Cossette and Robert
    Walker, University of Calgary
2.  \"Scalable Test Data Generation from Multidimensional Models\": by
    Emina Torlak, University of California Berkeley
3.  \"Assessing the Value of Branches with What-if Analysis\" by
    Christian Bird and Thomas Zimmermann, Microsoft Research

SIGNIFICANT PROGRAMS THAT PROVIDED A SPRINGBOARD FOR FURTHER TECHNICAL
EFFORTS

SIGSOFT has two software engineering education programs - one targeted
toward students and the seconded focused on educators.

Students receive discounted membership rates and registration fees at
all SIGSOFT-sponsored conferences and workshops. In addition, our two
flagship conferences: the International Conference on Software
Engineering (ICSE), which is co-sponsored with IEEE Technical Council on
Software Engineering, and the ACM Symposium on the Foundations of
Software Engineering (FSE) offer a Doctoral Symposium where students are
mentored by experienced Software Engineering professors. Also, SIGSOFT
provides travel support to SIGSOFT sponsored or co-sponsored conferences
or workshops for graduate and undergraduate students who are SIGSOFT
members through the Conference Aid Program for Students (CAPS) -
http://www.sigsoft.org/CAPS/. Attendance at conferences and workshops to
present papers and to interact with researchers and practitioners in
software engineering is an important component of students\' education
and professional development. Moreover, students\' presence at
conferences and workshops enriches and broadens conference and workshop
activities. Conferences and workshops are also a good way to introduce
students to the services of SIGSOFT. In FY 2012 over \$57K of grants
were given to over 70 students.

SIGSOFT and the National Science Foundation (NSF) held the 3rd Software
Engineering Educators Symposium (SEES) at FSE-2012. It consisted of two
half-day tutorials covering approaches for teaching programming and
software engineering to undergraduates. Some of the approaches were
experimental while others have shown some success in recruitment and
retention of women and minority students. Symposium participants were
provided access to instructional materials, received practical tips on
how to successfully apply the approaches, and learned about tools that
support hands-on instruction and active learning. In addition, funding
was available to help defray costs to attend SEES and FSE. Funding for
travel awards was provided by a grant from the National Science
Foundation and by ACM SIGSOFT. The purpose of the grant was to increase
participation in computing by building relationships with computer
science faculty at schools with populations of students that are members
of underrepresented groups. We therefore encouraged applications from
faculty who teach at institutions whose student population is majority
African American, Hispanic, Native American and women.

INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS WHICH PROVIDE SERVICE TO SOME PART OF THE TECHNICAL
COMMUNITY

Through the efforts of our History Liaison, Tao Xie, SIGSOFT continues
to provide valuable resources to the community documenting the history
of our field and the people involved in that history.

We also continued our outreach to the community through our increasing
presence in social media outlets, and we have an entry in Wikipedia as
well. This year 3 undergraduate students developed a software tool to
generate the wiki page from a database using 2 directories (a knowledge
and a community directory) to facilitate re-use of data. In addition,
this year we established a LinkedIn group as well as promoted the use of
Twitter at all conferences.

This year, for the ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Dissertation Award, we
introduced an Award Nomination Submission web site to streamline the
submission process and facilitate evaluation. The use of the website
proved very beneficial and it will be expanded to handle all 2013
SIGSOFT award submissions.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF KEY ISSUES FACING THE SIGSOFT MEMBERSHIP

As in previous years, conference finance remains the key challenge for
SIGSOFT, particularly for the volunteers who organize its sponsored
meetings, and ultimately for its membership who pay the registration
fees for those meetings. Operating and venue costs for conferences
continue to soar, and meeting organizers are finding ever more creative
ways to keep costs and registration fees down while still providing a
rich and rewarding experience for attendees, with the high quality
programs, benefits, amenities and activities they have come to expect.
Finally, our newsletter (Software Engineering Notes) continues to be the
launch pad for first time authors seeking to get early research results
published. Since a majority of these authors require additional guidance
on presentation and grammar, the challenge of providing helpful reviews
in a timely manner (as with any publication) is significant.

