content/activities/webinarsmain.md, before:

---
weight: 4
bookFlatSection: true
title: "SIGSOFT / ACM Webinars"
aliases:
- /resources/webinars.html
- /resources/presentwebinar.html
---

We hope you can join us for the upcoming SIGSOFT and ACM PD sponsored webinars.

Follow the links below to register for these free 60 minute webinars and be sure to share this with friends and colleagues who may be interested in these topics. Check out our [past events](http://learning.acm.org/webinar/), all available on demand.

Each talk will be followed by a moderated live question and answer session.

Note: If you'd like to attend but can't make it to the virtual event, you still need to register to receive a recording of the webinar when it becomes available. You can stream this and all ACM SIGSOFT and ACM Learning Webinars on your mobile device, including smartphones and tablets.

**Interested in presenting a webinar?** Check our page for [prospective presenters](/activities/webinarspresenter/) to find out how.


# Upcoming Webinars

Stay tuned for more webinars coming soon!


## Previous Webinars

### Working with Non-Traditional Subjects; Lessons Learned from Using VR to Help Students with ADHD Focus


Abstract: Have you ever considered working with subjects other than traditional developers? For the past three years, we have done just that. We have found the journey full of new challenges and unexpected twists, but ultimately extremely rewarding. In this webinar we will detail our multi-year research project where we studied over 100 students with ADHD, helping them increase their focus on work using virtual reality headsets. Whether you are interested in studying students with ADHD, programmers with autism, or another non-traditional population, we walk you through the techniques and procedures, often outside of the typical computer scientists’ wheelhouse, that enabled our research. By the end of this webinar you will not only understand our findings on this particular project, you will understand what it takes to work with non-traditional subjects, populations that are often eager to engage with researchers and respond dramatically to the right interventions.


Bio: David Shepherd is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Louisiana State University. He earned his Ph.D. and M.S. in Computer Science at the University of Delaware, and his B.S. in Computer Science at Virginia Commonwealth University. David has since worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Computer Science at the University of British Columbia, built sweat equity as employee #9 at Tasktop Technologies, and risen to Senior Principal Scientist at ABB Corporate Research. His research has produced tools that have been used by thousands, innovations that have been featured in the popular press, and practical ideas that have won business plan competitions. Dr. Shepherd currently serves as the Co-Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Systems & Software.


Date: Wednesday July 30, 10-11am ET

Recording: https://youtu.be/ezGF87NqjVc


### From SBOM to Trusted Software Supply Chain: How Far Are We?
### Dec 13, 2022 7:00 PM Eastern Standard Time

[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/VUSq-KvgQco)

[Registration and more information](https://youtu.be/VUSq-KvgQco)

Speaker: Xin Xia, moderator: Xing Hu

Abstract:

The security and transparency of the software supply chain have been an emergency problem met by the government, industry, and academia. Software Bill of Materials (SBOM), which records the ingredients that makeup software components, is widely used as a key building block to support the trusted software supply chain (TSSC). Except for SBOM, do we need to invent other technologies to support TSSC? What is the future road of TSSC? In this talk, I will present our recent progress in this area. I will introduce our initial works on SBOM generation and consumption, and then I will present our works relevant to vulnerability management (e.g., silent vulnerability bug reports and fixes identification, vulnerability detection, and CVE improvement) and supply chain attack prevention. Finally, I will briefly mention the future direction of TSSC.

Commit message:

add playlist of previous webinars

content/activities/webinarsmain.md, after:

---
weight: 4
bookFlatSection: true
title: "SIGSOFT / ACM Webinars"
aliases:
- /resources/webinars.html
- /resources/presentwebinar.html
---

We hope you can join us for the upcoming SIGSOFT and ACM PD sponsored webinars.

Follow the links below to register for these free 60 minute webinars and be sure to share this with friends and colleagues who may be interested in these topics. Check out our [past events](http://learning.acm.org/webinar/), all available on demand.

Each talk will be followed by a moderated live question and answer session.

Note: If you'd like to attend but can't make it to the virtual event, you still need to register to receive a recording of the webinar when it becomes available. You can stream this and all ACM SIGSOFT and ACM Learning Webinars on your mobile device, including smartphones and tablets.

**Interested in presenting a webinar?** Check our page for [prospective presenters](/activities/webinarspresenter/) to find out how.


# Upcoming Webinars

Stay tuned for more webinars coming soon!


## Previous Webinars

Playlist of previous webinars is available on [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn0nrSd4xjjYKKxOfmSKFiAzp6ApBHN7e).

### Working with Non-Traditional Subjects; Lessons Learned from Using VR to Help Students with ADHD Focus


Abstract: Have you ever considered working with subjects other than traditional developers? For the past three years, we have done just that. We have found the journey full of new challenges and unexpected twists, but ultimately extremely rewarding. In this webinar we will detail our multi-year research project where we studied over 100 students with ADHD, helping them increase their focus on work using virtual reality headsets. Whether you are interested in studying students with ADHD, programmers with autism, or another non-traditional population, we walk you through the techniques and procedures, often outside of the typical computer scientists’ wheelhouse, that enabled our research. By the end of this webinar you will not only understand our findings on this particular project, you will understand what it takes to work with non-traditional subjects, populations that are often eager to engage with researchers and respond dramatically to the right interventions.


Bio: David Shepherd is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at Louisiana State University. He earned his Ph.D. and M.S. in Computer Science at the University of Delaware, and his B.S. in Computer Science at Virginia Commonwealth University. David has since worked as a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Computer Science at the University of British Columbia, built sweat equity as employee #9 at Tasktop Technologies, and risen to Senior Principal Scientist at ABB Corporate Research. His research has produced tools that have been used by thousands, innovations that have been featured in the popular press, and practical ideas that have won business plan competitions. Dr. Shepherd currently serves as the Co-Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Systems & Software.


Date: Wednesday July 30, 10-11am ET

Recording: https://youtu.be/ezGF87NqjVc


### From SBOM to Trusted Software Supply Chain: How Far Are We?
### Dec 13, 2022 7:00 PM Eastern Standard Time

[Watch on YouTube](https://youtu.be/VUSq-KvgQco)

[Registration and more information](https://youtu.be/VUSq-KvgQco)

Speaker: Xin Xia, moderator: Xing Hu

Abstract:

The security and transparency of the software supply chain have been an emergency problem met by the government, industry, and academia. Software Bill of Materials (SBOM), which records the ingredients that makeup software components, is widely used as a key building block to support the trusted software supply chain (TSSC). Except for SBOM, do we need to invent other technologies to support TSSC? What is the future road of TSSC? In this talk, I will present our recent progress in this area. I will introduce our initial works on SBOM generation and consumption, and then I will present our works relevant to vulnerability management (e.g., silent vulnerability bug reports and fixes identification, vulnerability detection, and CVE improvement) and supply chain attack prevention. Finally, I will briefly mention the future direction of TSSC.
